Jump to content

Main menu

Main menu

move to sidebar hide

Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * About Wikipedia
  * Contact us

Contribute

  * Help
  * Learn to edit
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Upload file

![](/static/images/icons/wikipedia.png)
![Wikipedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-wordmark-en.svg) ![The
Free Encyclopedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-tagline-en.svg)

Search

Search

Appearance

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Personal tools

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Pages for logged out editors learn more

  * Contributions
  * Talk

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * (Top)

  * 1 Background

  * 2 Candidates

  * 3 Postponement

Toggle Postponement subsection

    * 3.1 International reactions

  * 4 Overturning of postponement and resumption of elections

  * 5 Campaign

  * 6 Conduct

  * 7 Results

  * 8 Reactions

Toggle Reactions subsection

    * 8.1 Domestic

    * 8.2 International

  * 9 See also

  * 10 References

Toggle the table of contents

# 2024 Senegalese presidential election

12 languages

  * العربية
  * Deutsch
  * Español
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Italiano
  * Русский
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 中文

Edit links

  * Article
  * Talk

English

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

General

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Cite this page
  * Get shortened URL
  * Download QR code

Print/export

  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

In other projects

  * Wikidata item

Appearance

move to sidebar hide

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

2024 Senegalese presidential
election![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/fd/Flag_of_Senegal.svg/50px-
Flag_of_Senegal.svg.png)

* * *  
  
---  
| <- 2019 | **24 March 2024 (2024-03-24)** | 2029 ->  
---|---|---  
Turnout| 61.30%  
|  | ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/85/Bassirou_Diomaye_Faye_-_2024_%28cropped%29.jpg/100px-Bassirou_Diomaye_Faye_-_2024_%28cropped%29.jpg) | ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/af/Mamadou_Ba_au_EITI_Global_Conference_%28cropped%29_Election_infobox.jpg/117px-Mamadou_Ba_au_EITI_Global_Conference_%28cropped%29_Election_infobox.jpg)  
---|---|---  
Candidate  | **Bassirou Diomaye Faye** | Amadou Ba  
Party  | PASTEF | APR  
Alliance  | DP | BBY  
Popular vote  | **2,434,751** | 1,605,086   
Percentage  | **54.28%** | 35.79%   
  
* * *

![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/e3/2024_Senegalese_presidential_election_%28no_legend%29.svg/300px-2024_Senegalese_presidential_election_%28no_legend%29.svg.png)Results
by department  
**Faye:** 40–50% 50–60% 60–70% 70–80% 80–90%  
**Ba:** 40–50% 50–60% 60–70% 70–80% 80–90%  
**Dia:** 40–50%  
  
* * *

| **President before election**  
Macky Sall  
APR | **ElectedPresident**   
Bassirou Diomaye Faye  
PASTEF  
---|---  
Politics of Senegal  
---  
![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/3d/Coat_of_arms_of_Senegal.svg/125px-
Coat_of_arms_of_Senegal.svg.png)  
Constitution

  * Human rights

  
Government

  * President

    Macky Sall
  * Prime Minister

    Sidiki Kaba
  * Cabinet of Senegal

  
Parliament

  * National Assembly

    Speaker: Moustapha Niasse

  
Judiciary

  * Court of Cassation

  
Administrative divisions

  * Regions
  * Departments
  * Arrondissements
  * Communes
  * Rural communities

  
Elections

  * Recent elections 

    
    * Presidential: 2019
    *  _2024_
    
    * Parliamentary: 2017
    * 2022
  * Political parties

  
Foreign relations

  * Ministry of Foreign Affairs 

    Minister: Sidiki Kaba

* * *

  * Diplomatic missions of / in Senegal

* * *

  * Passport
  * Visa requirements
  * Visa policy

  
![flag](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/fd/Flag_of_Senegal.svg/32px-
Flag_of_Senegal.svg.png) Senegal portal

  * Other countries

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
Presidential elections were held in Senegal on 24 March 2024. Incumbent
president Macky Sall was ineligible to pursue a third term due to term limits
in the Constitution of Senegal.[1]

The elections were originally scheduled for 25 February,[2][3] but were
postponed indefinitely by a decree of Sall on 3 February,[4] and then delayed
by the National Assembly to 15 December. However, on 15 February the
Senegalese Constitutional Council overturned the postponement and ordered
elections to proceed as soon as possible,[5] with the government subsequently
setting a new election date for 24 March after a national dialogue at the end
of February was ruled unconstitutional.[6][7]

Bassirou Diomaye Faye, running in place of Ousmane Sonko, was elected
president with 54% of the vote, while Amadou Ba, the candidate of the ruling
United in Hope (BBY) coalition, peacefully conceded defeat.[8] Faye's victory
was later confirmed by Senegal's Supreme Court.[9] He was inaugurated as
president on 2 April.

## Background

[edit]

Several parties had announced their intent to run for office in 2024, but they
first had to receive sufficient support from the general public to pass the
sponsorship stage. Any presidential candidate must receive between 0.8 percent
and 1 percent of the electorate's signatures. These signatures must be
collected with at least 2,000 sponsorships in each of the seven of Senegal's
fourteen regions.[3] Candidates can also have the option of receiving
sponsorships from at least 13 members of the National Assembly, or 120 mayors
and heads of regional councils.[10] A deposit of 30 million CFA francs must
also be paid by candidates at the Caisse des dépôts et consignations.[11]

On 17 February 2023, the day before the date was revealed for the upcoming
elections, Senegalese opposition candidate Ousmane Sonko was forcibly taken
from his vehicle amid rallies outside a Dakar courthouse where his trial was
taking place. Sonko was in court as part of a civil lawsuit against him by
Senegal's tourism minister for defamation and public insults.[12]

On 3 July, following a series of protests regarding Sonko's conviction for
"immoral behaviour" in a separate case, incumbent president Macky Sall stated
that he would not seek re-election for a third term.[13][14]

Registrations for candidacy opened in October 2023 and ended on 26 December
2023. Pre-campaigning began on 5 January 2024 while the campaign period was
set to start on 4 February, with the first round taking place on 25
February.[11][10]

## Candidates

[edit]

On 14 July, Ousmane Sonko was announced as the presidential candidate for
PASTEF. Sonko's eligibility as a candidate was unclear due to him receiving a
two-year prison sentence in June 2023, rendering him ineligible to run
according to some legal experts; although it was noted he had not exhausted
his appeals to the Supreme Court, which could reverse his sentence.[15] On 31
July, PASTEF was ordered dissolved by the Senegalese government,[16] while
Sonko undertook a months-long hunger strike in protest over the political
situation.[17]

In September, Sall nominated Prime Minister Amadou Ba as candidate for the
ruling Alliance for the Republic.[18]

On 19 November, PASTEF designated its secretary-general Bassirou Diomaye Faye
as their candidate for the election.[19] Faye had been imprisoned since April
2023, when he was arrested for criticising the conduct of Sonko's defamation
trial on social media.[20] In December, a court ordered Sonko's reinstatement
to the voters' list and allowed him to file his candidacy.[21]

A total of 93 people registered to run for president before the Senegalese
Constitutional Council. The list of candidates was narrowed down as the body
examined the sponsorship of would-be candidates until 10 January 2024 before
moving on to scrutinize other relevant documents. Many candidates were
rejected due to missing documents, insufficient sponsors or sponsors
supporting more than one candidate, including former prime ministers Aminata
Toure and Cheikh Hadjibou Soumaré, as well as Macky Sall's brother-in-law
Adama Faye. This prompted Toure and 27 other candidates to collectively
criticise the sponsorship control system.[10]

In January 2024, candidate Thierno Alassane Sall filed a complaint against
fellow candidate Karim Wade being of dual French-Senegalese nationality.[22]
Wade, a former minister and the son of former president Abdoulaye Wade,
subsequently renounced his French citizenship.[23] At the same time, the
National Assembly created a commission of inquiry responsible for monitoring
the electoral process.[24]

On 20 January, the Senegalese Constitutional Council published the final list
of candidates for the presidential election. It was made up of 20 candidates
including Amadou Ba, former prime ministers Idrissa Seck and Mahammed Boun
Abdallah Dionne, former interior minister Aly Ngouille Ndiaye, the former
mayor of Dakar Khalifa Sall, the mayor of Kolda, Mame Boye Diao, and Bassirou
Diomaye Faye, who was in prison pending a trial.[25][26][27] Two women were
also cleared to run, namely gynaecologist Rose Wardini and entrepreneur Anta
Babacar Ngom,[28] the head of one of the country's largest food manufacturers
and poultry firms, Sedima.[29][30] Both are the first women to run for
president since 2012.[31]

The candidacies of Ousmane Sonko and Karim Wade were not validated, with the
council citing Sonko's six-month suspended sentence for defamation that was
upheld by the Senegalese Supreme Court on 4 January and Wade's renunciation of
his French citizenship being "not retroactive" and his sworn declaration of
the renunciation being "inexact".[32] Wade's exclusion prompted the 25 MPs of
his Senegalese Democratic Party to call for an inquiry in the National
Assembly over Wade's and other candidates' exclusion,[28] which lasted until
18 February, when it was ended by the Senegalese government, citing the
opening of a judicial investigation over the matter.[33]

On 28 January, Sonko released a video on social media formally recognizing
Bassirou Diomaye Faye as his replacement in the election.[34]

On 19 February, Rose Wardini renounced her candidacy following controversy
over her dual Franco-Senegalese nationality.[35]

## Postponement

[edit]

See also: 2023–2024 Senegalese protests

On 3 February, hours before campaigning was about to start, President Macky
Sall ordered the indefinite postponement of the election, citing a
parliamentary investigation into two judges of the Constitutional Court over
their integrity with regards to the electoral process that was launched
following Karim Wade's exclusion from the elections and warning of adverse
effects on the "credibility of the election by creating the seeds of pre- and
post-electoral litigation". Sall also claimed that some of the official
candidates held dual citizenship. This was the first postponement of a
presidential election in the country's history.[4][36]

The postponement was welcomed by Wade's Democratic Party, which requested the
postponement, while candidates Thierno Alassane Sall, who called the
postponement "high treason,"[37] Khalifa Sall and Déthié Fall announced that
they would start their campaign as originally scheduled,[38] while candidate
Habib Sy said that all opposition candidates had agreed to launch their
campaigns together as scheduled.[39] Rejected candidate Aminata Touré called
the decision "sabotage".[36] Abdou Latif Coulibaly, the Secretary General of
Sall's government and its concurrent spokesman, announced his resignation,
saying that he wanted to have "full and complete freedom" to defend his
political convictions.[40]

On 4 February, police in Dakar fired tear gas to disperse demonstrators
protesting against the postponement and arrested Aminata Touré and candidate
Anta Babacar Ngom,[41] who had attended one of the rallies after all 19
opposition candidates called for supporters to gather in the streets,
including at a major roundabout and in front of the National Assembly.
Authorities also suspended and later revoked the broadcasting license of the
private television channel Walf TV for its coverage of the protests, calling
it an "incitement to violence".[42][43][44] Protesters were seen chanting
"Macky Sall, dictator!" and establishing makeshift barricades, burning
tyres[39] and throwing rocks at police.[37] The Ministry of Communication,
Telecommunications and Digital Economy shut off mobile internet access on 5
February, citing "the dissemination of several hateful and subversive messages
relayed on social networks in the context of threats and disturbances to
public order."[45] Three people were killed during protests against the
postponement in Saint-Louis, Dakar and Ziguinchor.[46] Protests were also held
in Diourbel.[47]

In a heated session on 5 February that saw some opposition deputies removed by
security forces after they tried to block proceedings, the National Assembly
voted in favor of a proposal to postpone the elections until 15 December
formally. The measure, which needed the support of at least three-fifths (99)
of the chamber's 165 deputies to pass, was approved by 105 members and
rejected by only one MP and prompted renewed protests outside the National
Assembly that were suppressed by police using tear gas. Two opposition parties
subsequently filed an appeal to the Constitutional Council urging it to direct
"the continuation of the electoral process."[42][48][49] Fourteen opposition
candidates also filed an appeal to the council,[50] with two others pledging
to challenge the postponement in court.[51] Three lawmakers who were
affiliated with PASTEF were briefly arrested on 6 February.[52]

In response to the postponement and subsequent protests, former presidents
Abdou Diouf and Abdoulaye Wade called on Macky Sall to organise the "national
dialogue he has announced, without delay." They also called on protesters to
"immediately end the violence."[53]

### International reactions

[edit]

The French foreign ministry called on Senegalese authorities "to end the
uncertainty about the electoral calendar so the vote can be held as soon as
possible."[40] The US State Department also urged "all participants in (the)
electoral process to engage peacefully to swiftly set a new date and the
conditions for a timely, free and fair election".[54] US Senate Foreign
Relations Committee chair Ben Cardin said the postponement put Senegal "on a
dangerous path towards dictatorship, and must not be allowed to stand."[55]

ECOWAS called on authorities to "expedite the various processes to set a new
date for the elections",[54] while African Union commission chair Moussa Faki
Mahamat urged a resolution of the political crisis "through consultation,
understanding and dialogue" and called on authorities to "organise the
elections as quickly as possible, in transparency, in peace and national
harmony".[43] The European Union also said the postponement had opened a
"period of uncertainty" and called "for the staging of a transparent,
inclusive and credible election as soon as possible."[40] United Nations Human
Rights Office spokesperson Liz Throssell said any decision to postpone the
elections should be "based on broad-based consultations."[55] On 8 February,
foreign ministers of ECOWAS member states held an emergency session in Abuja,
Nigeria, to discuss the situation in Senegal.[56] On 12 February, an ECOWAS
delegation arrived in the country to attempt to help mediate.[57]

The Committee to Protect Journalists condemned the Senegalese government's
shutdown of Walf TV.[41]

## Overturning of postponement and resumption of elections

[edit]

On 15 February, the Senegalese Constitutional Council ruled that the decision
to postpone and reschedule the election by Macky Sall and the National
Assembly was "contrary to the constitution" and ordered its cancellation.[58]
However, it also acknowledged that holding the election as originally
scheduled on 25 February was no longer feasible, and urged the government to
act immediately. In response, presidential spokesperson Yoro Dia said that
Sall would comply with the decision, but did not give a new date for it to be
held.[5] In a televised interview on 22 February, Sall said that he would
leave office as scheduled on 2 April, but said that he would hold talks first
with political leaders to determine a new timetable for the elections.[59] He
also expressed his willingness to release Ousmane Sonko and his supporters as
an act of good faith.[60] His proposal for a dialogue was rejected on 23
February by the Aar Sunu Election (Protect Our Election) collective composed
of 40 civil society groups, which called it "unacceptable" and an "attempt at
diversion".[61]

During the week that the postponement was overturned, several hundred
political prisoners were released by the government.[62] At a protest in Dakar
on 17 February, opposition candidate Malick Gakou [fr] called for the election
to be held in March to ensure the departure of Macky Sall from the presidency
as previously scheduled on 2 April.[63] A total of 15 candidates have called
for elections to be held before 2 April.[64] On the original date of the
elections on 25 February, candidates held a mock vote with them slipping
ballot papers into a box bearing the words "RIP 25 February."[65] In the end
of February, the government tabled an amnesty bill to calm the social and
political climate.[66]

During a national dialogue in Diamniadio that was boycotted by the opposition
and was attended only by Amadou Ba and another candidate on 26 February, Macky
Sall announced that elections would be held before the start of the rainy
season in July, and reiterated his commitment to leave office as scheduled in
April. In response, Aar Sunu Election, which also boycotted the proceedings,
called for a general strike on 27 February.[67][66] On the second and final
day of the national dialogue on 27 February, a panel composed of civil,
political and religious leaders proposed holding the presidential elections on
2 June, and recommended a review of the disqualification of Karim Wade and
other presidential candidates.[68]

On 6 March, the government set the first round of the elections on 24 March
after the constitutional court ruled the national dialogue was
unconstitutional.[7] Macky Sall dismissed Amadou Ba as prime minister to allow
him to focus on his election campaign and replaced him with Interior Minister
Sidiki Kaba.[69] The Constitutional Council approved of the new date on 7
March.[70] On 14 March, days before the election, Sonko and Faye were released
from prison, following the passage of the amnesty bill, granting them a few
days of campaigning.[71]

In an interview with the BBC on 20 March, Macky Sall rejected responsibility
for the political crisis caused by his decision to postpone the election,
saying "I don't owe any apology, I abided by the law".[72]

## Campaign

[edit]

Campaigning began on 9 March and ended on 22 March, but was complicated by it
occurring during Ramadan, during which many activities were shut down for the
day.[30][73] This forced some candidates to resort to online strategies.[74]

The election took place amid several socioeconomic affecting Senegal, such as
high unemployment among the youth, increases in the cost of living, and
questions over the management of domestic oil and gas production which is
expected to begin in 2024.[75]

Bassirou Diomaye Faye campaigned on creating jobs, taking a strong stance
against corruption, and vowing to reexamine energy contracts.[76] He ran under
the slogan "Diomaye mooy Ousmane", which means "Diomaye is Ousmane" in Wolof,
and expressed hope that Sonko's charisma and popular appeal amongst Senegal's
youth would boost his campaign.[77] Faye's program is similar with Sonko's for
2019.[78] Faye announced his intentions to implement a monetary reform to
finance the economy of Senegal, removing the CFA franc as the country's
currency. In his program, he states that he would "carry out a monetary reform
that will allow our country to have its own currency", however he added that
“the creation of a currency requires the respect of the stages of the
process”.[79] He added in a press conference that he believed that there was
"no sovereignty if there is no monetary sovereignty."[80] After concern from
foreign investors, in March he said that he would implement "monetary reform
at the sub-regional level first", before considering to create a national
currency.[80] He also supported extending the fishing zone exclusive for local
fishermen by 20 kilometers to offset losses from foreign fishing fleets.[81]
During the campaign, Faye released a declaration of his assets and called on
other candidates to follow suit.[82]

Amadou Ba said that he sought to represent continuity and stability. He vowed
to continue the legacy of Macky Sall with a positive investment climate and
said that a vote for him was a vote for "greater peace and prosperity". He
criticized Faye and Sonko saying their proposals were radical and labeled them
as "bandits"'. He argued his ministerial track record proved he would oversee
development and create one million jobs in five years.[74]

Khalifa Sall ran on a platform of sustainable development, particularly on
responsible water management and equitable land distribution.[29] Mahammed
Boun Abdallah Dionne ran on a platform focusing on Senegal's "economic
sovereignty".[29] However, Dionne fell ill during the campaign and was
hospitalized in Paris, where he later died on 5 April.[83] Anta Babacar Ngom
meanwhile called for the strengthening of the private sector, free healthcare
and reformation of the education system, including increased recognition for
indigenous languages.[29]

On 15 March, a day after Faye's release from jail, he gathered hundreds of
supporters at his first public appearance as a presidential contender.[84]
Former president Abdoulaye Wade and his Senegalese Democratic Party (PDS)
endorsed Faye on the same day, following the disqualification of his son Karim
Wade.[85] Cheikh Tidiane Dieye, another candidate in the presidential
election, withdrew in favor of Faye.[86] Former prime minister Aminata Touré,
who had a public falling out with Macky Sall and left the ruling coalition in
2023, also backed Faye.[84]

## Conduct

[edit]

On 23 March, the electoral observation mission of the Economic Community of
Central African States (CEMAC) called for an "inclusive and incident-free
presidential vote".[87]

Five hundred observers were stationed at polling offices around the country
and another 500 traveled between sites to monitor the vote. Their mission was
to make sure voting opens on time and whether candidates were present at the
count, as well as watching for any interference or irregularities. A coalition
of Senegalese civil society groups, known collectively as Cosce, was also
involved in the observation mission.[88]

Shortly after polling closed, a visiting government delegation in Saint-Louis
was pelted with stones after entering a closed polling station.[89]

Malin Björk, who headed a group of 100 observers from the European Union that
monitored 40 polling stations across the country, said that the vote "took
place in a calm environment and was well-organized."[90]

An ECOWAS monitoring team sent to the country said that the election was
conducted "smoothly".[91]

## Results

[edit]

Candidate| Party| Votes| %  
---|---|---|---  
| Bassirou Diomaye Faye| PASTEF| 2,434,751| 54.28  
| Amadou Ba| Alliance for the Republic| 1,605,086| 35.79  
| Aliou Mamadou Dia[92]| Party for Unity and Rally| 125,690| 2.80  
| Khalifa Sall| Manko Taxawu Sénégal| 69,760| 1.56  
| Idrissa Seck| Rewmi| 40,286| 0.90  
| Thierno Alassane Sall [fr]| Republic of Values| 25,946| 0.58  
| Boubacar Camara [fr]| Party of Construction and Solidarity| 23,359| 0.52  
| Aly Ngouille Ndiaye [fr]| Independent| 20,964| 0.47  
| Papa Djibril Fall| The Servants / MPR| 18,304| 0.41  
| Serigne Mboup| Independent| 16,049| 0.36  
| Déthié Fall| Republican Party for Progress| 15,836| 0.35  
| Daouda Ndiaye| Independent| 15,895| 0.35  
| Anta Babacar Ngom| Alternative for the Next Generation of Citizens| 15,457|
0.34  
| Cheikh Tidiane Dieye| Independent| 15,172| 0.34  
| Mamadou Diao| Independent| 14,591| 0.33  
| Mamadou Lamine Diallo [fr]| National Patriotic Union/Tekki| 9,998| 0.22  
| Mahammed Dionne| Independent| 8,435| 0.19  
| Malick Gakou [fr]| Grand Party| 6,343| 0.14  
| Habib Sy| Independent| 3,206| 0.07  
Total| 4,485,128| 100.00  
Valid votes| 4,485,128| 99.24  
Invalid/blank votes| 34,125| 0.76  
Total votes| 4,519,253| 100.00  
Registered voters/turnout| 7,371,890| 61.30  
Source: Conseil constitutionnel  
  
## Reactions

[edit]

### Domestic

[edit]

Official results were released and validated by the constitutional court on 29
March,[93] but even before the preliminary results of the first round were
released on 26 March,[94] at least seven candidates, including Anta Babacar
Ngom and Déthié Fall, had already conceded defeat to Bassirou Diomaye
Faye.[95] This came after the first set of tallies announced showed Faye had
won the majority of votes in the first round, triggering widespread street
celebrations in Dakar.[96] Hours later, the ruling party's candidate, Amadou
Ba, conceded defeat with congratulations to Faye. Reacting to his victory,
Faye pledged to "govern with humility and transparency, and to fight
corruption at all levels", and to devote himself to "rebuilding our
institutions".[97]

Outgoing president Macky Sall also congratulated Faye, hailing "a victory for
Senegalese democracy".[98][99]

Faye's victory is the first instance that an opposition candidate won an
election in the first round since Senegal's independence in 1960.[93] Faye was
officially inaugurated as president on 2 April.[100]

The annual Independence Day parade in Dakar on 4 April was cancelled, with
authorities citing the uncertainty caused by the election campaign.[101]

### International

[edit]

  * ![African Union](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/51/Flag_of_the_African_Union.svg/23px-Flag_of_the_African_Union.svg.png) African Union Commission President Moussa Faki Mahamat issued a statement saying that he "warmly congratulates" Faye on his victory and wished him "full success in his weighty and noble charge".[102]
  * ![China](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/fa/Flag_of_the_People%27s_Republic_of_China.svg/23px-Flag_of_the_People%27s_Republic_of_China.svg.png) Foreign ministry spokesperson Lin Jian congratulated Faye for his victory and welcomed working with the new government.[103]
  * ![France](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/c/c3/Flag_of_France.svg/23px-Flag_of_France.svg.png) President Emmanuel Macron congratulated Faye on his victory, stating that he looked forward to working with him.[104]
  * ![Nigeria](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/79/Flag_of_Nigeria.svg/23px-Flag_of_Nigeria.svg.png) President Bola Tinubu congratulated Faye in a press statement. He remarked that this election, along with the 2023 Liberian general election, showed that democracy is well-rooted in West Africa. He also expressed his congratulations in his concurrent role as chairman of ECOWAS.[105]
  * ![Rwanda](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/17/Flag_of_Rwanda.svg/23px-Flag_of_Rwanda.svg.png) President Paul Kagame congratulated Faye for his victory and praised the conduct of the election.[106]
  * ![South Africa](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/af/Flag_of_South_Africa.svg/23px-Flag_of_South_Africa.svg.png) President Cyril Ramaphosa congratulated Faye for his victory and praised Senegal for having a peaceful transition of power.[107]
  * ![The Gambia](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/77/Flag_of_The_Gambia.svg/23px-Flag_of_The_Gambia.svg.png) President Adama Barrow praised the peaceful conduct of the election and said that he looked forward to working with Faye.[108]
  * ![United States](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/a/a4/Flag_of_the_United_States.svg/23px-Flag_of_the_United_States.svg.png) President Joe Biden congratulated Faye in a press statement and said that the election was a victory for Senegal's democracy.[109]

## See also

[edit]

  * National Autonomous Electoral Commission (Senegal)

## References

[edit]

  1. **^** "Senegal's Macky Sall rules out controversial third term". _Africanews_. 4 July 2023. Archived from the original on 18 July 2023. Retrieved 23 March 2024.
  2. **^** "Senegal's next presidential election set for Feb. 25, 2024: statement". _Reuters_. 16 February 2023. Archived from the original on 27 February 2023. Retrieved 27 February 2023.
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Sey, Abdoulie (17 February 2023). "Senegal sets date for next presidential election". _African Press Agency_. Archived from the original on 27 February 2023. Retrieved 27 February 2023.
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Senegal President Calls Off February 25 Election". _Barron's_. Agence France-Presse. 3 February 2024. Archived from the original on 3 February 2024. Retrieved 3 February 2024.
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Mednick, Sam; Dione, Babacar (16 February 2024). "Senegal's president says election will be as soon as possible, after court overturns delay". _AP News_. Archived from the original on 17 February 2024. Retrieved 17 February 2024.
  6. **^** "Senegal: govt sets new date for delayed presidential vote for 24 March". _The North Africa Post_. Archived from the original on 15 March 2024. Retrieved 15 March 2024.
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Senegal to hold delayed presidential election on March 24". _Africanews_. 7 March 2024. Archived from the original on 15 March 2024. Retrieved 15 March 2024.
  8. **^** "Former Senegal prime minister concedes defeat in presidential election to opposition candidate". _AP News_. 25 March 2024. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 25 March 2024.
  9. **^** "Senegal top court confirms Faye's election victory". _The Canberra Times_. 29 March 2024. Archived from the original on 29 March 2024. Retrieved 30 March 2024.
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Chemam, Melissa (10 January 2024). "Senegal's sponsorship phase for presidential candidates nears completion". _RFI_. Archived from the original on 22 January 2024. Retrieved 21 January 2024.
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Presidential election in Senegal: 79 candidates register their candidacies". _Africanews_. 27 December 2023. Archived from the original on 20 January 2024. Retrieved 21 January 2024.
  12. **^** Dione, Babacar (16 February 2023). "Senegal police smash car, forcibly remove opposition leader". _AP News_. Archived from the original on 27 February 2023. Retrieved 27 February 2023.
  13. **^** "Senegalese President Macky Sall says he won't seek a third term in 2024 elections after protests". _Le Monde_. 3 July 2023. Archived from the original on 3 July 2023. Retrieved 3 July 2023.
  14. **^** Princewill, Nimi (5 June 2023). "At least 16 dead in Senegal protests after opposition leader sentencing". _CNN_. Archived from the original on 9 July 2023. Retrieved 21 January 2024.
  15. **^** "Senegal: Opposition politician Sonko declared presidential candidate by his party". _Africanews_. 15 July 2023. Archived from the original on 6 August 2023. Retrieved 6 August 2023.
  16. **^** "Sénégal: le gouvernement dissout le parti de l'opposant Ousmane Sonko, 2 morts dans des manifestations". _RFI_ (in French). 31 July 2023. Archived from the original on 6 August 2023. Retrieved 6 August 2023.
  17. **^** "Senegal: opposition leader Sonko ends hunger strike (party)". _Africanews_. 23 November 2023. Archived from the original on 15 December 2023. Retrieved 21 January 2024.
  18. **^** Westerhoff, Léa-Lisa (9 September 2023). "Sénégal: Amadou Ba candidat de la coalition au pouvoir pour la présidentielle". _RFI_ (in French). Archived from the original on 7 December 2023. Retrieved 6 December 2023.
  19. **^** "Sénégal: avec le plan Bassirou Diomaye Faye, la stratégie électorale du Pastef". _RFI_ (in French). 19 November 2023. Archived from the original on 4 December 2023. Retrieved 6 December 2023.
  20. **^** Chemam, Melissa (20 November 2023). "Senegalese opposition chooses new candidate for presidential election". _RFI_. Archived from the original on 27 December 2023. Retrieved 21 January 2024.
  21. **^** Chemam, Melissa (5 January 2024). "Court dashes election hopes for Senegalese opposition leader Sonko". _RFI_. Archived from the original on 16 January 2024. Retrieved 21 January 2024.
  22. **^** Westerhoff, Léa-Lisa (16 January 2024). "Afrique Présidentielle au Sénégal: le candidat Thierno Sall dépose une réclamation contre Karim Wade". _RFI_ (in French). Archived from the original on 17 January 2024. Retrieved 17 January 2024.
  23. **^** Dione, Babacar (19 January 2024). "Senegal presidential candidate renounces French nationality to run for office". _AP News_. Archived from the original on 22 January 2024. Retrieved 21 January 2024.
  24. **^** Soumaré, Marième (31 January 2024). "Présidentielle au Sénégal : l'Assemblée nationale crée une commission d'enquête sur le processus électoral". _Jeune Afrique_ (in French). Archived from the original on 3 February 2024. Retrieved 1 February 2024.
  25. **^** Popoviciu, Andrei (23 March 2024). "The tax inspectors competing to be Senegal's new president". _Al Jazeera_. Archived from the original on 29 March 2024. Retrieved 23 March 2024.
  26. **^** Rich, David (22 March 2024). "How Senegal's presidential election was postponed, reinstated and moved up". _France 24_. Archived from the original on 22 March 2024. Retrieved 22 March 2024.
  27. **^** "SÉNÉGAL Présidentielle au Sénégal: 20 candidats validés, Karim Wade éliminé". _Voa Afrique_ (in French). 20 January 2024. Archived from the original on 21 January 2024. Retrieved 21 January 2024.
  28. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Chemam, Melissa (22 January 2024). "Sonko and Wade excluded from Senegal's list of 20 presidential candidates". _RFI_. Archived from the original on 3 February 2024. Retrieved 23 January 2024.
  29. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Pietromarchi, Virginia (13 March 2024). "Tax inspectors to poultry boss: Senegal's presidential candidates". _Al Jazeera_. Archived from the original on 14 March 2024. Retrieved 14 March 2024.
  30. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Senegal: Presidential election campaigns begin ahead March 24 vote". _Africanews_. 11 March 2024. Archived from the original on 10 March 2024. Retrieved 10 March 2024.
  31. **^** "The first woman to run for president in years inspires hope in Senegal". _Africanews_. 20 March 2024. Archived from the original on 20 March 2024. Retrieved 20 March 2024.
  32. **^** "Senegal's presidential candidate list excludes opposition leader Sonko". _France 24_. 21 January 2024. Archived from the original on 21 January 2024. Retrieved 21 January 2024.
  33. **^** Idrac, Charlotte (19 February 2024). "Afrique Sénégal: fin de la commission d'enquête parlementaire sur la sélection des candidats à la présidentielle". _Radio France International_ (in French). Archived from the original on 18 February 2024. Retrieved 18 February 2024.
  34. **^** "Ousmane Sonko chooses Bassirou Diomaye Faye as replacement in Senegal's presidential race". _Africanews_. 30 January 2024. Archived from the original on 1 February 2024. Retrieved 30 January 2024.
  35. **^** Idrac, Charlotte (19 February 2024). "Sénégal: la candidate Rose Wardini se retire de la course à la présidentielle". _RFI_ (in French). Archived from the original on 19 February 2024. Retrieved 20 February 2024.
  36. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Dione, Babacar (4 February 2024). "Senegal's leader postpones Feb. 25 presidential vote, citing controversies over candidate lists". _AP News_. Archived from the original on 4 February 2024. Retrieved 4 February 2024.
  37. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Senegal Police, Protesters Clash After Election Postponed". _VOA News_. Agence France-Presse. 4 February 2024. Archived from the original on 4 February 2024. Retrieved 4 February 2024.
  38. **^** "Opposition divided after Senegal's Macky Sall postponed presidential polls". _Africanews_. 4 February 2024. Archived from the original on 4 February 2024. Retrieved 4 February 2024.
  39. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Police fire tear gas on Dakar protest following Senegal's postponed presidential vote". _France 24_. 4 February 2024. Archived from the original on 4 February 2024. Retrieved 4 February 2024.
  40. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Senegal's President Macky Sall postpones Feb 25 presidential elections indefinitely". _Associated Press_. 4 February 2024. Archived from the original on 4 February 2024. Retrieved 4 February 2024.
  41. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Done, Babacar; Asadu, Chinedu (5 February 2024). "Senegal police clamp down on protesters as opposition rejects election delay". _AP News_. Archived from the original on 4 February 2024. Retrieved 5 February 2024.
  42. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Dione, Babacar (5 February 2024). "Senegal parliament delays election until December after opposition lawmakers are blocked from voting". _AP News_. Archived from the original on 6 February 2024. Retrieved 5 February 2024.
  43. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Senegal parliament debates election delay as police disperse Dakar protests". _France 24_. 5 February 2024. Archived from the original on 7 February 2024. Retrieved 5 February 2024.
  44. **^** "Police and protesters clash after Senegal election postponed". _Al Jazeera_. 4 February 2024. Archived from the original on 4 February 2024. Retrieved 4 February 2024.
  45. **^** Sambou, Wahany Johnson (5 February 2024). "Senegal cuts internet access as lawmakers debate a bill to possibly extend the president's tenure". _Africanews_. Archived from the original on 5 February 2024. Retrieved 5 February 2024.
  46. **^** "Senegalese security forces kill at least 3 people – Amnesty international". _Africanews_. 13 February 2024. Archived from the original on 13 February 2024. Retrieved 13 February 2024.
  47. **^** "Senegal: Nationwide protests against vote delay, 1 dead". _Africanews_. 10 February 2024. Archived from the original on 10 February 2024. Retrieved 11 February 2024.
  48. **^** Akinpelu, Yusuf (5 February 2024). "Senegal on the brink after elections postponed". _BBC News_. Archived from the original on 6 February 2024. Retrieved 5 February 2024.
  49. **^** Dodman, Benjamin (6 February 2024). "Senegal's democratic record on the line as presidential vote delay sparks crisis". _France 24_. Archived from the original on 7 February 2024. Retrieved 7 February 2024.
  50. **^** "Dakar residents react to overturning of presidential poll delay". _Africanews_. 16 February 2024. Archived from the original on 16 February 2024. Retrieved 16 February 2024.
  51. **^** "Senegal parliament delays election to December 15 after chaotic vote". _Al Jazeera_. 5 February 2024. Archived from the original on 6 February 2024. Retrieved 5 February 2024.
  52. **^** "Senegal vote delay not 'legitimate', says US". _France 24_. 7 February 2024. Archived from the original on 7 February 2024. Retrieved 7 February 2024.
  53. **^** "Senegal bans protest over delayed vote, suspends internet access". _France 24_. 13 February 2024. Archived from the original on 13 February 2024. Retrieved 13 February 2024.
  54. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Opposition leaders reject postponement of Senegal election as West African bloc urges dialogue". _Euronews_. 4 February 2024. Archived from the original on 4 February 2024. Retrieved 4 February 2024.
  55. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "West African bloc asks Senegal to reverse the presidential election delay that's caused an uproar". _Africanews_. 7 February 2024. Archived from the original on 8 February 2024. Retrieved 8 February 2024.
  56. **^** "ECOWAS holds emergency session over Senegal crisis and member exits". _Al Jazeera_. 8 February 2024. Archived from the original on 8 February 2024. Retrieved 8 February 2024.
  57. **^** Braithwaite, Sharon; Princewill, Nimi (14 February 2024). "UN raises alarm over escalating tensions in Senegal after election delay". _CNN_. Archived from the original on 17 February 2024. Retrieved 14 February 2024.
  58. **^** "Senegal's Constitutional Council overturns delay of Feb. 25 presidential poll". _France 24_. AP, Reuters. 16 February 2024. Archived from the original on 15 February 2024. Retrieved 16 February 2024.
  59. **^** Mednick, Sam; Dione, Babacar (23 February 2024). "Senegal's president says he'll leave office in April, but gives no date for elections". _AP News_. Archived from the original on 23 February 2024. Retrieved 23 February 2024.
  60. **^** Jones, Mayeni (23 February 2024). "Senegal's President Macky Sall agrees to step down in April". _BBC News_. Archived from the original on 23 February 2024. Retrieved 23 February 2024.
  61. **^** "Senegal Civil Society Collective Rejects President's Dialogue To Set Vote Date". _Barron's_. Agence France-Presse. 23 February 2024. Archived from the original on 24 February 2024. Retrieved 24 February 2024.
  62. **^** "Senegal's president says election will be as soon as possible, after court overturns delay". _Africanews_. 17 February 2024. Archived from the original on 17 February 2024. Retrieved 17 February 2024.
  63. **^** Gregory, James (17 February 2024). "Senegal election: Opposition supporters march in Dakar calling for swift vote". _BBC News_. Archived from the original on 18 February 2024. Retrieved 18 February 2024.
  64. **^** "Senegal presidential candidates unite for swift elections". _Africanews_. 20 February 2024. Archived from the original on 23 February 2024. Retrieved 20 February 2024.
  65. **^** "Senegal: Opposition candidates vote in mock election to protest poll delay". _Africanews_. 26 February 2024. Archived from the original on 26 February 2024. Retrieved 26 February 2024.
  66. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Senegal's Macky Sall proposes amnesty bill to calm election-linked turmoil". _France 24_. 27 February 2024. Archived from the original on 27 February 2024. Retrieved 23 March 2024.
  67. **^** Dione, Babacar (27 February 2024). "Senegal's president says the postponed election will be held before the rainy season begins". _AP News_. Archived from the original on 27 February 2024. Retrieved 27 February 2024.
  68. **^** Dione, Babacar (28 February 2024). "Senegalese leaders propose June elections after court rejects president's 10 month delay". _AP News_. Archived from the original on 28 February 2024. Retrieved 28 February 2024.
  69. **^** "Senegal president announces March election". _BBC_. 6 March 2024. Archived from the original on 6 March 2024. Retrieved 7 March 2024.
  70. **^** "Senegal's Constitutional Council agrees to March 24 election date for delayed presidential poll". _France 24_. 7 March 2024. Archived from the original on 7 March 2024. Retrieved 8 March 2024.
  71. **^** Négoce, Nicolas; Aradi, Gloria (15 March 2024). "Ousmane Sonko and Bassirou Diomaye Faye: Senegal opposition leaders freed days before election". _BBC News_. Archived from the original on 21 March 2024. Retrieved 23 March 2024.
  72. **^** "Senegal crisis: "I don't owe any apology, I abided by the law", Sall says". _Africanews_. 21 March 2024. Archived from the original on 21 March 2024. Retrieved 21 March 2024.
  73. **^** "Senegal's presidential frontrunners end campaigns amid ahead of vote". _Africanews_. 23 March 2024. Archived from the original on 29 March 2024. Retrieved 24 March 2024.
  74. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Cissé, Khadidiatou (22 March 2024). "Senegal election dominated by freed prisoner Faye and heir apparent Ba". _BBC News_. Dakar. Archived from the original on 22 March 2024. Retrieved 23 March 2024.
  75. **^** "Vote counting under way in Senegal's delayed presidential election". _Al Jazeera_. 24 March 2024. Archived from the original on 29 March 2024. Retrieved 25 March 2024.
  76. **^** Princewill, Nimi (23 March 2024). "Senegal goes to the polls as country's once sturdy democracy looks shaky". _CNN_. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 23 March 2024.
  77. **^** "Senegal Elections 2024: Faye and his change mantra". _TRT Africa_. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 23 March 2024.
  78. **^** Kane, Coumba; Ollivier, Théa (23 March 2024). "Senegal's presidential election: Bassirou Diomaye Faye, Ousmane Sonko's Plan B". _Le Monde_. Archived from the original on 25 March 2024. Retrieved 23 March 2024.
  79. **^** "Bassirou Diomaye Faye: what's Senegal opposition contender about?". _APAnews_. 11 March 2024. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 23 March 2024.
  80. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Senegal opposition leader backs off promise to create national currency". _Reuters_. 15 March 2024. Archived from the original on 17 March 2024.
  81. **^** "Senegal's fishermen pin hopes on new president to help them fill their nets". _Al Jazeera_. 30 March 2024. Archived from the original on 1 April 2024. Retrieved 1 April 2024.
  82. **^** "Diomaye Faye: Senegal's tax inspector and former inmate headed for the presidential palace". _Africanews_. 27 March 2024. Archived from the original on 30 March 2024. Retrieved 27 March 2024.
  83. **^** "Former Senegal Prime Minister And Presidential Candidate Dies". _Barron's_. 6 April 2024. Archived from the original on 5 April 2024. Retrieved 6 April 2024.
  84. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Christensen, Sofia; Felix, Bate. "Freed from jail, Senegal opposition presidential candidate draws hundreds to first event". _Reuters_.
  85. **^** "Senegal's ex-President Wade and party back opposition candidate Faye". _Reuters_.
  86. **^** "Presidential election in Senegal: Cheikh Tidiane Dieye calls to vote for Bassirou Diomaye Faye". _Jeuneafrique_. Archived from the original on 21 March 2024. Retrieved 23 March 2024.
  87. **^** "Présidentielle 2024 : La CEMAC appelle à un « scrutin présidentiel inclusif et sans incident »". _Senego_ (in French). 23 March 2024. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 24 March 2024.
  88. **^** "Hundreds of observers muster to make sure Senegal's presidential vote is fair". _RFI_. 23 March 2024. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 24 March 2024.
  89. **^** "Senegalese await the outcome of a peaceful presidential vote, following months of unrest". _Associated Press_. 25 March 2024. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 25 March 2024.
  90. **^** "Vote Counting Underway in Senegal Presidential Election". _www.voanews.com_. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 25 March 2024.
  91. **^** "VOA60 Africa – ECOWAS praises smooth running of Senegal's presidential election". _www.voanews.com_. 27 March 2024. Archived from the original on 28 March 2024. Retrieved 29 March 2024.
  92. **^** "Portrait : Qui est Aliou Mamadou Dia, candidat du PUR à l'élection présidentielle de 2024". Archived from the original on 19 February 2024. Retrieved 25 March 2024.
  93. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Senegal top court confirms Bassirou Diomaye Faye's election victory". _France 24_. 29 March 2024. Archived from the original on 29 March 2024. Retrieved 30 March 2024.
  94. **^** "Senegal's Bassirou Diomaye Faye takes early lead in presidential election". _Al Jazeera_. 25 March 2024. Archived from the original on 25 March 2024. Retrieved 25 March 2024.
  95. **^** "Vote count continues in Senegal's presidential election". _France 24_. 25 March 2024. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 25 March 2024.
  96. **^** "Opposition leading race for Senegal presidency". _BBC News_. 25 March 2024. Archived from the original on 25 March 2024. Retrieved 25 March 2024.
  97. **^** "Senegal's little-known opposition leader Bassirou Diomaye Faye is named the next president". _AP_. 25 March 2024. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 25 March 2024.
  98. **^** "Senegal opposition candidate Faye set to win presidential election". _Al Jazeera_. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 26 March 2024.
  99. **^** "Sénégal: Macky Sall «félicite le vainqueur Bassirou Diomaye Faye»". 25 March 2024. Archived from the original on 29 March 2024. Retrieved 30 March 2024.
  100. **^** "Bassirou Diomaye Faye sworn in as Senegal's new president after dramatic ascent". _France 24_. 2 April 2024. Archived from the original on 2 April 2024. Retrieved 2 April 2024.
  101. **^** "Senegal marks 64 years of independence". _Africanews_. 5 April 2024. Archived from the original on 5 April 2024. Retrieved 5 April 2024.
  102. **^** "African Union 'warmly congratulates' Senegal's Faye on presidential election win". _France 24_. 29 March 2024. Archived from the original on 29 March 2024. Retrieved 29 March 2024.
  103. **^** "China congratulates Senegal's Bassirou Diomaye Faye on election win". _Bangladesh Sangbad Sangstha (BSS)_. 27 March 2024. Archived from the original on 29 March 2024. Retrieved 29 March 2024.
  104. **^** "Les félicitations de Macron et de Barrow à Bassirou Diomaye Faye". _APS_ (in French). 25 March 2024. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 28 March 2024.
  105. **^** "Tinubu Congratulates Senegal's President-elect, Faye, Commends President Sall For Overseeing Poll Widely Adjudged As 'Peaceful, Transparent'". _Sahara Reporters_. 27 March 2024. Archived from the original on 2 April 2024. Retrieved 30 March 2024.
  106. **^** "Rwanda: Kagame Congratulates New Senegalese President Faye". _All Africa_. 27 March 2024. Archived from the original on 29 March 2024. Retrieved 30 March 2024.
  107. **^** "Ramaphosa congratulates Senegal's Faye on Presidential win Faye". _Polity_. 28 March 2024. Archived from the original on 2 April 2024. Retrieved 30 March 2024.
  108. **^** "Les félicitations de Macron et de Barrow à Bassirou Diomaye Faye". _APS_ (in French). 25 March 2024. Archived from the original on 27 March 2024. Retrieved 28 March 2024.
  109. **^** "Statement from President Joe Biden Congratulating Bassirou Diomaye Faye as President-elect of Senegal". _The White House_. 27 March 2024. Archived from the original on 28 March 2024. Retrieved 29 March 2024.

  * v
  * t
  * e

![Senegal](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/fd/Flag_of_Senegal.svg/23px-
Flag_of_Senegal.svg.png) Elections and referendums in Senegal  
---  
Presidential elections|

  * 1963
  * 1968
  * 1973
  * 1978
  * 1983
  * 1988
  * 1993
  * 2000
  * 2007
  * 2012
  * 2019
  * 2024

  
Parliamentary elections|

  * 1879
  * 1881
  * 1883
  * 1885
  * 1887
  * 1889
  * 1891
  * 1893
  * 1895
  * 1897
  * 1899
  * 1901
  * 1903
  * 1905
  * 1907
  * 1909
  * 1911
  * 1913
  * 1915
  * 1917
  * 1919
  * 1920
  * 1924
  * 1928
  * 1934
  * 1946
  * 1952
  * 1957
  * 1959
  * 1963
  * 1968
  * 1973
  * 1978
  * 1983
  * 1988
  * 1993
  * 1998
  * 2001
  * 2007
  * 2012
  * 2017
  * 2022
  * _2024_

  
Departmental elections|

  * 1996
  * 2002
  * 2009
  * 2014
  * 2022

  
Local elections|

  * ...
  * 1996
  * 2002
  * 2009
  * 2014
  * 2022

  
French elections|

  * 1848
  * 1849
  * 1871
  * 1879
  * 1881
  * 1885
  * 1889
  * 1893
  * 1898
  * 1902
  * 1906
  * 1910
  * 1914
  * 1919
  * 1924
  * 1928
  * 1932
  * 1934
  * 1936
  * 1945
  * 1946 (Jun)
  * 1946 (Nov)
  * 1951
  * 1956

  
Referendums|

  * 1945
  * 1946 (May)
  * 1946 (Oct)
  * 1958
  * 1963
  * 1970
  * 2001
  * 2016

  
  
![](https://login.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1)

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=2024_Senegalese_presidential_election&oldid=1249053802"

Categories:

  * 2024 elections in Africa
  * 2024 in Senegal
  * March 2024 events in Senegal
  * Presidential elections in Senegal

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 French-language sources (fr)
  * Articles with short description
  * Short description with empty Wikidata description
  * Use dmy dates from March 2024

  * This page was last edited on 2 October 2024, at 22:23 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Code of Conduct
  * Developers
  * Statistics
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  * ![Wikimedia Foundation](/static/images/footer/wikimedia-button.svg)
  * ![Powered by MediaWiki](/w/resources/assets/poweredby_mediawiki.svg)

  *[v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[e]: Edit this template

