Jump to content

Main menu

Main menu

move to sidebar hide

Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * About Wikipedia
  * Contact us

Contribute

  * Help
  * Learn to edit
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Upload file

![](/static/images/icons/wikipedia.png)
![Wikipedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-wordmark-en.svg) ![The
Free Encyclopedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-tagline-en.svg)

Search

Search

Appearance

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Personal tools

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Pages for logged out editors learn more

  * Contributions
  * Talk

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * (Top)

  * 1 Postponements

  * 2 Eligibility

  * 3 Background and preparatory measures

  * 4 Regional councils

Toggle Regional councils subsection

    * 4.1 A

    * 4.2 B

    * 4.3 C

    * 4.4 D

    * 4.5 E

    * 4.6 G

    * 4.7 H

    * 4.8 J

    * 4.9 L

    * 4.10 M

    * 4.11 N

    * 4.12 R

    * 4.13 S

    * 4.14 T

    * 4.15 U

    * 4.16 Z

  * 5 Cities and local councils

  * 6 Other authorities

  * 7 External links

  * 8 References

Toggle the table of contents

# 2024 Israeli municipal elections

2 languages

  * Français
  * עברית

Edit links

  * Article
  * Talk

English

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

General

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Cite this page
  * Get shortened URL
  * Download QR code

Print/export

  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikidata item

Appearance

move to sidebar hide

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Part of a series on the  
---  
Politics of Israel  
![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/8f/Emblem_of_Israel.svg/100px-
Emblem_of_Israel.svg.png)  
Basic Laws

  * Jerusalem Law
  * Law of Return

  
Presidency

  * President (list) 

    Isaac Herzog

  
Executive

  * Prime Minister (list) 

    Benjamin Netanyahu
  * Alternate Prime Minister
  * Office of the Prime Minister
  * Deputy leaders
  * Cabinet

    Current (37th)

    Security Cabinet
    Kitchen Cabinet
  * Attorney General

    Gali Baharav-Miara

  
Legislature

  * Knesset

    Speaker: Amir Ohana
    Members (Arab)
    Leader of the Opposition

    Yair Lapid
    Knesset Guard
    State Comptroller

  
Elections

  * Political parties
  * Elections Law
  * Central Elections Committee
  * Referendums

  
Judiciary

  * Supreme Court

    President: Esther Hayut

  
Administrative divisions

  * Districts
  * Local government

    Municipalities
    City councils
    Local councils
    Regional councils

  
Foreign relations

  * Ministry of Foreign Affairs

* * *

  * Diplomatic missions of / in Israel
  * Ambassadors

* * *

  * Nationality law
  * Passport
  * Visa requirements
  * Visa policy

* * *

  * Arab League

    International law
    Status of territories
    Status of the Golan Heights
  * Israel and the United Nations
  * Israel and the United States
  * Israel and the European Union

  
![flag](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d4/Flag_of_Israel.svg/32px-
Flag_of_Israel.svg.png) Israel portal

  * Other countries

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/26/Ptakim_Mek.svg/220px-
Ptakim_Mek.svg.png)Illustration of municipal ballot papers set to be used in
2023. Yellow ballots will be used to elect the authority's leader while white
ones will be used to elect its council
![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/9/98/%D7%A7%D7%9C%D7%A4%D7%99_%D7%91%D7%97%D7%99%D7%A8%D7%95%D7%AA_%D7%9C%D7%A8%D7%90%D7%A9%D7%95%D7%AA_%D7%94%D7%A2%D7%99%D7%A8_%D7%A0%D7%A9%D7%A8_%D7%95%D7%9C%D7%9E%D7%95%D7%A2%D7%A6%D7%AA_%D7%94%D7%A2%D7%99%D7%A8_%D7%A0%D7%A9%D7%A8%2C_%D7%91%D7%91%D7%99%D7%AA_%D7%9C%D7%A0%D7%93%D7%90%D7%95_%D7%91%D7%92%D7%91%D7%A2%D7%AA_%D7%A0%D7%A9%D7%A8_02.jpg/250px-%D7%A7%D7%9C%D7%A4%D7%99_%D7%91%D7%97%D7%99%D7%A8%D7%95%D7%AA_%D7%9C%D7%A8%D7%90%D7%A9%D7%95%D7%AA_%D7%94%D7%A2%D7%99%D7%A8_%D7%A0%D7%A9%D7%A8_%D7%95%D7%9C%D7%9E%D7%95%D7%A2%D7%A6%D7%AA_%D7%94%D7%A2%D7%99%D7%A8_%D7%A0%D7%A9%D7%A8%2C_%D7%91%D7%91%D7%99%D7%AA_%D7%9C%D7%A0%D7%93%D7%90%D7%95_%D7%91%D7%92%D7%91%D7%A2%D7%AA_%D7%A0%D7%A9%D7%A8_02.jpg)Election
ballots for the mayor of Nesher and the city council of Nesher

**Municipal elections** in Israel took place on 27 February 2024 amidst the
ongoing Israel–Hamas war.[1] In accordance with changes made in 2018, election
day will be a paid day off work.[2] All municipalities, local councils and
regional councils will be up for election, as will their leaders. Top-two
runoffs will be held in all localities where no leadership candidate won 40%
or more of the vote in the first round.[_citation needed_]

Voters in municipalities and local councils choose their leader and council in
two separate ballots that are colored yellow and white respectively. Voters in
regional councils also vote for a local committee using ballots that are
colored blue. Blue ballots are also used for borough committees in cases in
which they exist. All elected councilors and council leaders assume office 21
days after the election.[_citation needed_]

## Postponements

[edit]

The elections were originally scheduled for 31 October 2023,[3][4] but were
initially postponed until 30 January 2024[5] by the Knesset due to the
Israel–Hamas war, in a law[6] that allowed one more postponement to 27
February, subject to 80 Knesset members additional approval.[7] Finance
Minister and leader of the Religious Zionist Party Bezalel Smotrich requested
that the elections be further postponed due to the number of candidates from
his party that are serving in the IDF Reserves.[8] On 1 January 2024, the
Knesset postponed the elections until 27 February.[9]

## Eligibility

[edit]

All Israeli citizens and permanent residents who are 17 or older are eligible
to vote on election day,[10] unlike legislative elections, where only Israeli
citizens who are 18 or older are eligible to vote.[11]

Voters are only allowed to vote in the locality in which they are registered
40 days before the election.[12][_better source needed_] Individuals who were
registered in a different locality in the 18-month period preceding the
election will not be eligible to vote.[13][_better source needed_]

## Background and preparatory measures

[edit]

The elections will primarily concern local and national issues, and most lists
set to compete will be local.[_citation needed_]

The elections were preceded by a period of political deadlock which began in
2019 and resulted in five legislative elections over the course of three
years.[14] Several new political parties have formed since the 2018 elections,
such as the National Unity Party, while existing parties with local affiliates
have either lost their seats in the Knesset (such as the Jewish Home, Meretz
and the Green Party), or dissolved entirely (such as Kulanu).[_needs
update_][_citation needed_]

The Israeli Police have prepared to protect candidates, mostly from Arab
localities, who are being threatened by criminal organizations.[15]

Municipal lists are to be submitted between 27 and 28 September 2023.[16]

## Regional councils

[edit]

As of May 2022, there are 54 regional councils in Israel.[17] Voters in
regional councils elect two different levels of leadership with two different
ballots. One for the council's leader and one for the council's members. In
some regional councils, voters also elect the members of their local
committee.[18]

### A

[edit]

**Al-Batuf** Al-Batuf Regional Council is currently led by Ahed Rahal, who was
first elected in 2018.[19]

**Al-Kasom** Al-Kasom Regional Council is led by Salama El Atrash, who was
first elected via runoff[20] in 2018.[21]

**Alona** Alona Regional Council is led by Aryeh Sharon, who assumed office in
1999.[_citation needed_]

### B

[edit]

**Be'er Tuvia** Be'er Tuvia Regional Council is led by Kobi Avivi, who was
first elected in 2018.[22] The council's previous leader, Dror Shor, has
announced his intention to challenge Avivi in the election.[23]

**Bik'at HaYarden** Bik'at HaYarden Regional Council is led by David Elhayani,
who became its leader in 2009.[24] **Bnei Shimon** Bnei Shimon Regional
Council is led by Nir Zamir,[25] who was first elected in 2018.[26]

**Brenner** Brenner Regional Council is led by Doron Shidlov, who was first
elected in 2012.[27][28] He was unopposed for re-election in 2018.[29]

**Bustan al-Marj** Bustan al-Marj Regional Council is led by Abd Ak-Kharim
Zoabi, who was first elected via runoff in 2018.[30]

### C

[edit]

**Central Arava** Central Arava Regional Council is led by Meir Zur, who
became the council's leader on 6 April 2021 following the resignation of his
predecessor, Eyal Blum.[31][32]

### D

[edit]

**Drom HaSharon** Drom HaSharon Regional Council is led by Oshrat Gani Gonen,
who was first elected in 2018.[33]

### E

[edit]

**Emek HaMaayanot** Emek HaMaayanot Regional Council is led by Yoram Karin,
who became its leader in 2009.[34][_better source needed_]

**Emek HaYarden** Emek HaYarden Regional Council is led by Idan Greenbaum, who
was first elected in a special election in 2016.[35]

**Eshkol** Eshkol Regional Council is led by Gadi Yarkoni, who was first
elected in a special election held in June 2015.[32][36]

### G

[edit]

**Gan Raveh** Gan Raveh Regional Council is led by Shlomo Elimelech, who was
first elected in 1991.[37]

**Gederot** Gederot Regional Council is led by Yossi Kendelsein.[32]

**Gezer** Gezer Regional Council is led by Rotem Yadlin, who was first elected
in 2018.[38]

**Gilboa** Gilboa Regional Council is led by Oved Nur, who was first elected
via special election in 2015.[39] Former Councillor Shanir Friedman has
announced his intention to run for the council's leadership,[40] as has Danny
Atar, formerly the council's leader and a member of the Knesset.[41]

**Golan** Golan Regional Council is led by Haim Rokach, who was first elected
via runoff in 2018.[30] The 2023 election will be the first to include the
newly founded Trump Heights, which is part of the council's
jurisdiction.[_citation needed_] Uri Kellner, a former deputy leader of the
council, has announced his intention to run for its leadership.[42]

**Gush Etzion** Gush Etzion Regional Council is led by Shlomo Ne'eman, who was
first elected via special election in 2017. Ne'eman was re-elected via runoff
in 2018.[43]

### H

[edit]

**Har Hevron** Har Hevron Regional Council is led by Yochai Damri, who was
first elected in 2013.[44] Damri announced in May 2023 that he will not seek
re-election.[45]

**Hefer Valley** Hefer Valley Regional Council is led by Galit Shaul, who was
elected in 2018, defeating her predecessor, Rani Eidan.[46][32]

**Hevel Eilot** Hevel Eilot Regional Council is led by Hanan Ginat who was
first elected in a special election in June 2016.[47] Ginat was re-elected
unopposed in 2018.[48]

**Hevel Modi'in** Hevel Modi'in Regional Council is led by Shimon Susan.[32]

**Hevel Yavne** Hevel Yavne Regional Council is led by Moshe Liber, who was
first elected in 2013.[49]

**Hof Ashkelon** Hof Ashkelon Regional Council is led by Itamar Revivo, who
was first elected via runoff in 2018.[50]

**Hof HaCarmel** Hof HaCarmel Regional Council is led by Assif Izak, who was
first elected in 2018.[51]

**Hof HaSharon** Hof HaSharon Regional Council is led by Eliyahu Bracha, who
was first elected via special election in 2009.[52] Bracha was re-elected
unopposed in 2018.[_citation needed_]

### J

[edit]

**Jezreel Valley** Jezreel Valley Regional Council is led by Eyal Baser, who
became its leader in 2006.[53]

### L

[edit]

**Lakhish** Lakhish Regional Council is led by Danny Moravia, who became its
leader in 2004.[54] Moravia announced in November 2022 that he won't seek re-
election.[55]

**Lev HaSharon** Lev HaSharon Regional Council is led by Amir Ritov, who
became its leader in 2007.[56]

**Lower Galilee** Lower Galilee Regional Council is led by Nitzan Peleg, who
was first elected in 2018. Asher Cohen, who ran against Peleg in 2018, has
expressed an interest in challenging Peleg in 2023.[57]

### M

[edit]

**Ma'ale Yosef** Ma'ale Yosef Regional Council is led by Shimon Guetta, who
was first elected in December 2012.[58] Guetta was re-elected for a second
term in 2018.[59]

**Mateh Asher** Mateh Asher Regional Council is led by Moshe Davidovich, who
was first elected in 2018.[60]

**Mateh Binyamin** Mateh Binyamin Regional Council is led by Israel Gantz, who
was first elected in 2018.[61]

**Mateh Yehuda** Mateh Yehuda Regional Council is led by Niv Vizel, who was
first elected in 2018.[60] In May 2022, Interior Minister Ayelet Shaked began
the process of establishing a separate authority in Tzur Hadassah.[62]

**Megiddo** Megiddo Regional Council is led by Itzik Kholavski, who is seeking
a third term in office.[63] Kholavski will be challenged by Ruti Baum and
Nehamia Rievi.[_citation needed_]

**Megilot** Megilot Regional Council is led by Aryeh Cohen, who became its
leader in 2015.[64]

**Menashe** Menashe Regional Council is led by Ilan Sadeh, who became its
leader in 1992. Sadeh was re-elected unopposed in 2018.[65]

**Merhavim** Merhavim Regional Council is led by Shai Hajaj, who became its
leader in 2012. Hajaj was re-elected unopposed in 2018.[66]

**Merom HaGalil** Merom HaGalil Regional Council is led by Amit Sofer, was
first elected in 2009.[67]

**Mevo'ot HaHermon** Mevo'ot HaHermon Regional Council is led by Benny Ben-
Muvhar, who became its leader in 2002.[68]

**Misgav** Misgav Regional Council is led by Danny Avri, who became its leader
in 2018.[69]

### N

[edit]

**Nahal Sorek** Nahal Sorek Regional Council is led by Shay Reichner, who was
elected in a special election in October 2021 after his predecessor resigned
to serve as head of the Israel Antiquities Authority.[70]

**Neve Midbar** Neve Midbar Regional Council is led by Ibrahim Al-Huasla, who
was first elected in the council's first ever election in 2016.[71]

### R

[edit]

**Ramat HaNegev** Ramat HaNegev Regional Council is led by Eran Doron, who
became its leader in 2017.[72]

### S

[edit]

**Sdot Dan** Sdot Dan Regional Council is led by David Yifrach, who was first
elected in 2013.[73] Yifrach was re-elected unopposed in 2018.[74]

**Sdot Negev** Sdot Negev Regional Council is led by Tamir Idan, who was first
elected in 2012.[28]

**Sha'ar HaNegev** Sha'ar HaNegev Regional Council is led by Ofir Libstein,
who was elected in 2018, defeating Nira Shpak,[75] who later became a member
of the Knesset for Yesh Atid. In September 2022, Shpak announced that she
would not seek re-election to the Knesset, and would instead run for the
council's leadership a second time.[76] On 7 October 2023, Libstein was shot
dead in the October 2023 Gaza−Israel conflict.[77]

**Shafir** Shafir Regional Council is led by Adir Ne'eman, who was first
elected in 2018.[78][32]

**Shomron** Shomron Regional Council is led by Yossi Dagan, who was first
elected in 2015 to replace Gershon Mesika.[79] Dagan was re-elected in
2018.[80]

In May 2022, two settlements within the council, Sha'arei Tikva and Etz
Efraim, were merged into a single settlement, Sha'ar HaShomron.[81]

### T

[edit]

**Tamar** Tamar Regional Council is led by Nir Vagner, who was elected in a
November 2019 special election to replace his predecessor.[82]

### U

[edit]

**Upper Galilee** Upper Galilee Regional Council is led by Giora Salz,[32] who
will not seek re-election in 2023.[83]

### Z

[edit]

**Zevulun** Zevulun Regional Council is led by Amos Netzer who was first
elected via runoff in 2018.[30]

## Cities and local councils

[edit]

**Abu Ghosh** Abu Ghosh is led by Salim Jaber, who is serving his fourth,
nonconsecutive term. On 8 May 2022, Abu Ghosh's local council was dissolved
after it failed to pass a budget, and was temporarily replaced with an
Interior Ministry committee, the Ministry also held a hearing on removing
Jaber from his post, but decided against it.[84][85]

**Abu Snan** Abu Snan is led by Fauzi Mashlab, who was elected in 2018 via
runoff.[30]

**Alfei Menashe** Alfei Menashe is led by Shy Rosenzweig, who was first
elected in 2018.[86][87]

**Ariel** Ariel is led by Eliyau Shaviro, who became its mayor in March 2013
following the death of his predecessor, Ron Nachman.[88]

**Ashdod** Ashdod is led by Yehiel Lasri, who was first elected in 2008.[89]

**Ashkelon** Ashkelon is led by Tomer Glam, who became its acting mayor in
2017 and was elected to a full term in 2018.[_citation needed_]

**Azor** Azor is led by Aryeh Pechter, who became its leader in 2008.[90]

**Baqa al-Gharbiyye** Baqa al-Gharbiyye held its municipal election in 2019,
rather than in 2018.[82] Rayyid Daka won the election via runoff.[91]

Baqa al-Gharbiyye's council consists of 15 seats, presently held by eleven
different parties. Daka was not elected to the council and is thus its
sixteenth member.[91]

**Basma** Basma is led by Reyad Kabha, who was elected in 2013. He previously
led Basma from 2005 to 2009.[_citation needed_]

**Basmat Tab'un** Basmat Tab'un is led by Rayyid Zubidat, who was first
elected in 2018 via runoff.[30]

**Bat Yam** In 2017, Interior Minister Aryeh Deri made the decision to merge
Bat Yam into Tel Aviv, which would have made the 2018 election Bat Yam's last.
Deri reversed his decision in 2021, shortly before the end of his tenure as
Interior Minister, due to a successful effort to reduce the city's
deficit.[92] In the 2018 election, Likud member Zvika Brot defeated incumbent
Mayor Yossi Bachar via runoff. Former Mayor Shlomo Lahiani, who was removed
from office in 2015 after being found guilty of Breach of Trust, is considered
a potential candidate in 2023,[93] while Bachar has announced his intention to
run.[94]

**Beersheba** Beersheba is led by Ruvik Danilovich, who was first elected in
2008. In 2018, Danilovich was re-elected with 92% of the vote, while his party
won 16 of the council's 31 seats.[_citation needed_]

**Be'er Ya'akov** Be'er Ya'akov is led by Nissim Gozlan, who was first elected
in 2003. In 2021, Be'er Ya'akov's classification was changed from a local
council to a city.[_citation needed_]

**Beit Aryeh-Ofarim** Beit Aryeh-Ofarim is led by Yehuda Alboym, who was first
elected in 2018. On 8 May 2022, Beit Aryeh-Ofarim's council was dissolved,
after failing to pass a budget, and replaced by an Interior Ministry
committee. The Ministry also held a hearing on removing Alboym from his post,
but decided against it.[84][85]

**Beit Dagan** Beit Dagan is led by Eli Dadon, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

Beit Dagan's council consists of nine seats, five held by the Local Movement
for Beit Dagan and four by the Tnufa Neto party. Dadon's party was not elected
to the council, but he serves as its tenth member.[_citation needed_]

**Beit El** Beit El is led by Shai Alon, who was first elected in 2013.[95]

Beit El's council consists of nine seats divided between three
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Beit Jann** Beit Jann is led by Radi Nagam, who was first elected via runoff
in 2018.[30]

**Beit She'an** Beit She'an is led by Jackie Levy, who was elected in
2018.[96] Levy had previously served as the city's mayor between 2003 and
2013.[97] In August 2022, soccer player Eitan Tayeb announced his intention to
challenge Levy,[98] with city councilwoman Oshrat Barel announcing her own
campaign in October, while former mayor Rafi Ben Shitrit and Noam Juma
announced their campaigns in November.[99]

**Beit Shemesh** Beit Shemesh is led by Aliza Bloch, who was first elected in
2018. [_citation needed_]

Beit Shemesh's council consists of 21 seats held by six parties.[_citation
needed_]

**Beitar Illit** Beitar Illit is led by Meir Rubinstein, who became the mayor
in 2007.[_citation needed_]

Beitar Illit's council consists of 17 seats presently held by six parties.
Rubinstein's party was not elected to the council, but he serves as its
twenty-second member.[_citation needed_]

**Bi'ina** Bi'ina is led by Ali Khalil, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Binyamina-Giv'at Ada** Binyamina-Giv'at Ada is led by Itay Viceberg, who
became its leader in 2017 after his predecessor, Pinhas Zu-Aretz, died.
Viceberg will not seek re-election in 2023.[100]

Binyamina-Giv'at Ada's council consists of 13 seats, presently held by five
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Bnei Ayish** Bnei Ayish is led by Aryeh Gerale, a member of Likud, who was
first elected in 2013.[_citation needed_]

**Bir al-Maksur** Bir al-Maksur is led by Khaled Hujirat, who was first
elected in 2018.[_citation needed_]

Bir al-Maksur's council consists of nine seats divided between seven
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Bnei Brak** Bnei Brak is led by Avraham Rubinstein.[_citation needed_]

Bnei Brak's council consists of 27 seats, with Rubinstein's party, a local
chapter of United Torah Judaism, holding sixteen seats. Shas holds six seats,
Bnei Torah holds three, while Yachad and Likud hold one seat each.[_citation
needed_]

**Bu'eine Nujeidat** Bu'eine Nujeidat is led by Munir Hamuda, who was first
elected in 2018.[_citation needed_]

**Buq'ata** Buq'ata is one of four local councils in the Golan Heights who
were managed, until 2018, by Israeli-appointed local residents, and who first
held local elections in 2018.[101] Most local residents boycotted the
election, leading to Abbas Abu Awad and his party winning unopposed.[_citation
needed_]

**Daburiyya** Daburiyya is led by Zuhir Yousafia.[_citation needed_]

**Daliyat al-Karmel** Daliyat al-Karmel is led by Rafik Halabi, who was first
elected in 2018.[_citation needed_]

**Deir al-Asad** Deir al-Asad is led by Ahmed Dabbah, who was elected in 2018
via runoff.[30]

**Deir Hanna** Deir Hanna is led by Qasem Salam.[_citation needed_]

**Dimona** Dimona is led by Benny Biton, who was first elected in 2013.[102]

**Efrat** Efrat is led by Oded Revivi, who was first elected in 2008.[103]

**Eilat** Eilat is led by Eli Lankri, who became the city's acting mayor in
June 2021 after his predecessor, Meir Yitzhak Halevi, was elected to the
Knesset.[104] In August, Lankri defeated former mayor Gabi Kadosh in a special
election to complete Halevi's term, winning 44.7% of the vote to Kadosh's
41.2%.[105]

**El'ad** El'ad is led by Israel Porush, who was first elected in 2013[106]
and subsequently re-elected in 2018 after his main rival, Yitzhak Pindrus, was
disqualified by the Supreme Court for not living in the city. Porush will seek
re-election and be opposed by Shas candidate Yehuda Butbul, who chairs the
party's local chapter.[107]

**Elkana** Elkana is led by Asaf Mintzer, who was first elected in 2013.[95]

9 Members were elected to the council in 2018. five from Mitzner's party, and
two from the "Our Elkana" and "Young Elkana" lists respectively.[_citation
needed_]

**Elyakhin** Elyakhin is led by Sharoni Azuri, who was elected in 2018,
unseating his predecessor. Azuri's party won five seats on Elyakhin's nine-
seat council.[_citation needed_]

**Even Yehuda** Even Yehuda is led by Avi Harari, who was first elected in
2013 and re-elected unopposed in 2018.[74]

Harari's party, a broad-tent alliance of smaller parties, won ten out of the
council's eleven seats in 2018. The Be'ad party, led by Zohar Abramov, won the
remaining seat.[_citation needed_]

**Gan Yavne** Gan Yavne is led by Aharon Dror, who was first elected in
2003.[_citation needed_]

**Ganei Tikva** Ganei Tikva is led by Lizzie Delrica, who was first elected in
2013.[_citation needed_]

**Gedera** Gedera is led by Yoel Gamliel, who was first elected in 2008.[108]

**Ghajar** Ghajar, which is partially in Lebanon, is led by Ahmad Fatali, who
was first elected in 2003, replacing his uncle.[109]

**Giv'at Shmuel** Giv'at Shmuel is led by Yossi Brodny, who was first elected
in 2008. Brodny ran for a seat in the Knesset in 2022 as part of The Jewish
Home but was not elected.[_citation needed_]

**Givat Ze'ev** Giv'at Ze'ev is led by Yossi Avrahami, who was first elected
in 2008.[110]

**Givatayim** Givatayim is led by Ran Kunik, who was first elected in 2013.
Kunik was re-elected unopposed in 2018.[_citation needed_]

Givatayim's council consists of fifteen seats held by seven parties.[_citation
needed_]

**Hadera** Hadera is led by Zvika Gendelman, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_] In October 2021, Gendelman was charged with Fraud and
Breach of Trust, and received a six-month suspension in January 2021,[111]
with Nir Ben-Haim serving as acting mayor during that period.[_citation
needed_]

**Haifa**

Main article: 2023 Haifa mayoral election

Haifa is led by Einat Kalisch-Rotem, who was first elected in 2018, defeating
incumbent Yona Yahav.[112]

Haifa's council consists of 31 seats, presently held by 15 different
parties.[_citation needed_]

In July 2021, parties in the City Council formed the Change Council, an
informal coalition of parties opposing Rotem, which holds a majority on the
City Council.[113] Later that month, two of Rotem's deputy mayors were removed
from office by the City Council,[114] and replaced by Change Council members
in August.[115]

Lawyer David Etzioni, with the support of City Councillor Tammy Barak, has
announced his candidacy for Mayor.[116] As has former deputy mayor Israel
Savyon, who will lead a pensioners party.[117]

**Har Adar** Har Adar is led by Haim Mandel Shaked, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Harish** Harish is led by Yitzhak Keshet, who was first elected in
2013.[118] Harish was a Local council until May 2022, when it was declared a
City due to rapid population growth.[119]

In September 2021, Yitzhak Bachar announced his intention to run for
Mayor,[120] as did Yamina activist Yossi Ezrahi.[121] The Liberal Party will
seek election to the city council.[122]

**Hatzor HaGlilit** Hatzor HaGlilit is led by Shimon Swissa, who was first
elected in 2008.[_citation needed_]

**Herzliya** Herzliya is led by Moshe Fadlon, who was first elected in
2013.[95]

Herzliya's council consists of 21 seats presently held by 12 different
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Hod HaSharon** Hod HaSharon is led by Amir Kochavi, who was first elected
via runoff in 2018.[30]

**Holon** Holon is led by Moti Sasson, who was first elected in
1993.[_citation needed_]

**Hura** Hura is led by Habas Al-Atuna, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Hurfeish** Hurfeish is led by Rafik Mari, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**I'billin** I'billin is led by Ma'amun Sheikh, who was first elected in
2010.[_citation needed_]

**Iksal** Iksal is led by Muhammad Shalbi, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Jadeidi-Makr** Jadeidi-Makr is led by Suhil Malhan, who was first elected in
2018 via runoff.[30]

**Jaljulia** Jaljulia is led by Darwish Rabi, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Jatt** Jatt held its municipal election in 2019, rather than in 2018.[82]
Khaled Gara was elected, defeating incumbent Muhammad Watad.[123]

Jatts council consists of 11 seats, presently held by nine different parties.
Gara was not elected to the council and is thus its twelfth member.[124]

**Jerusalem**

Main article: 2024 Jerusalem municipal election

Jerusalem's Mayor is Moshe Lion, who was first elected in 2018, defeating Ofer
Berkovitch in a runoff.[125]

Jerusalem's council consists of 31 seats, with Lion, whose party didn't win
seats on the council, serving as its 32nd member. Lion's party later merged
with the local chapter of Likud. 5 seats are held by Berkovitch's party,
Hitorerut. 6 seats are held by Degel HaTorah, 5 are held by Shas, 3 are held
by Agudat Yisrael, 2 seats are held by Likud, 2 by Aryeh King's United Party,
2 by Hagit Moshe's The Jewish Home, 2 by the Jerusalem will Succeed party, 1
by Meretz, 1 by Bnei Torah, and one by the Saving Jerusalem list. Hitorerut
initially held seven seats, but were reduced to five after two members left
the party in April 2021 and formed the Together in Jerusalem party.[_citation
needed_]

In October 2022, Ofer Berkovitch announced that he will not seek re-election
to the City Council, and resigned as Hitorerut's leader.[126] He was succeeded
as leader by Councillor Adir Schwartz.[127]

An Arab party will seek election to the council in 2023.[128]

**Jish** Jish is led by Alias Alias, who is serving his fifth nonconsecutive
term.[_citation needed_]

9 people were elected to the council in 2018 from six different
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Jisr az-Zarqa** Jisr az-Zarqa is led by Muhammad Amash, who was first
elected in 2013.[_citation needed_]

**Julis** Julis is led by Vassam Nabuni, who was first elected in 2018 via
runoff.[30]

**Ka'abiyye-Tabbash-Hajajre** Ka'abiyye-Tabbash-Hajajre is led by Rafa
Hajajra, who was first elected in 2018 via runoff.[30]

**Kabul** Kabul is led by Salah Riyyan, who was re-elected via runoff in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Kafr Bara** Kafr Bara is led by Mahmud Asi.[_citation needed_]

Kafr Bara's council consists of nine seats presently held by nine
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Kafr Manda** In 2018, Kafr Manda held a municipal election, in which Munas
Abd Al-Halim defeated Ali Zeidan. After the result was appealed, the election
was voided and redone on 22 February 2022, with Zeidan defeating Al-Halim in
the redo.[_citation needed_]

**Kafr Qara** Kafr Qara is led by Paras Bdahi, who was elected in 2018 via
runoff.[30]

**Kafr Qasim** Kafr Qasim is led by Adal Badir.[_citation needed_]

**Kafr Yasif** Kafr Yasif is led by Shadi Zidan, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Karmiel** Karmiel is led by Moshe Kuninsky who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_] In January 2023, Alon Azulai, a member of Likud and
former Kuninsky aide, announced his intention to run for mayor, alleging that
Kuninsky's wife attempted to blackmail him.[129]

**Kaukab Abu Al-Hija** Kaukab Abu al-Hija is led by Zaher Salah.[_citation
needed_]

**Kfar Saba** Kfar Saba is led by Rafi Saar, who was first elected via runoff
in 2018.[30]

**Kfar Shmaryahu** Kfar Shmaryahu is led by Serg Kurshi.[_citation needed_]

Kfar Shmaryahu's council consists of seven seats presently held by three
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Kfar Tavor** Kfar Tavor is led by Oded Halperin, who was first elected in
2018. Both Halperin and Opposition Leader Eli Gabbay have announced their
intention to run in 2023.[130]

Kfar Tavor's council consists of nine seats presently held by three
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Kfar Vradim** Kfar Vradim is led by Eyal Shmueli, who was first elected in
2018 via runoff.[30] **Kisra-Sumei** Kisra-Sumei is led by Yasser Jdaban, who
was elected unopposed in 2018. Jdaban's party, Aluhda, won all nine seats on
the local council. [_citation needed_]

**Kokhav Ya'ir** Kokhav Ya'ir is led by Yuval Arad.[_citation needed_]

Kokhav Ya'ir's council consists of 11 seats. 7 Are held by Arad's Gal Party,
and four are held by the One Coummunity Party, whose leader is Shimi Ariel,
Arad's predecessor.[_citation needed_]

**Kuseife** Kuseife is led by Abd Al-Aziz Nasasra, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Lakiya** Lakiya is led by Ahmad Al-Assad, who was first elected via runoff
in 2018.[30]

**Lehavim** Lehavim is led by Yossi Nissan, who was first elected via runoff
in 2018.[30]

**Lod** Lod is led by incumbent Likud member Yair Revivo, who announced in
2021 that he will seek re-election in 2023.[_citation needed_]

Lod's council consists of 19 seats, 6 are held by Likud, 6 are held by the
United Arab List, 3 are held by The Jewish Home, 2 are held by Lod Beitenu,
the local chapter of Yisrael Beiteinu, 1 is held by Shas, and one is held by
the 'We All have a Future' list.[_citation needed_]

**Ma'ale Adumim** Ma'ale Adumim is led by Benny Kashriel, who became its
leader in 1992.[131] He is not running for re-election and has endorsed Guy
Yifrakh for the mayoral post.

Ma'ale Adumim's council consists of 15 seats presently held by four
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Ma'ale Efraim** Ma'ale Efrayim is led by Shomo Lalush, who was elected
unopposed in 2018.[_citation needed_]

**Ma'ale Iron** Ma'ale Iron is led by Mahmud Jbarin, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

Ma'ale Iron's council consists of 13 seats presently held by six
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Ma'alot-Tarshiha** Ma'alot-Tarshiha is led by Arkady Pummerantz, who
defeated previous mayor Shlomo Bohbot, who held office for 42 years, in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Maghar** Maghar, previously a local council, was reclassified as a city in
October 2021. Maghar is led by Farid Ghanem, who was first elected in 2018 via
runoff.[30]

**Majd al-Krum** Majd al-Krum is led by Salim Salibi[_citation needed_]

**Majdal Shams** Majdal Shams is one of four local councils in the Golan
Heights who were managed, until 2018, by Israeli-appointed local residents,
and who first held local elections in 2018.[101] Most local residents
boycotted the election, leading to Dulan Abu Salah and his party winning
unopposed.[_citation needed_]

**Mas'ade** Mas'ade is one of four local councils in the Golan Heights who
were managed, until 2018, by Israeli-appointed local residents, and who first
held local elections in 2018.[101] Most local residents boycotted the
election, with all candidates for both the council and its leadership dropping
out before the election. As a result, the Interior Ministry appointed a
temporary committee to manage the council.[_citation needed_]

**Mazkeret Batya** Mazkeret Batya is led by Gabi Gaon, who was first elected
in 2018.[132]

**Mazra'a** Mazra'a is led by Fuad Awad.[_citation needed_]

**Meitar** Meitar is led by Shimon Mazuz, who was first elected in 2018 via
runoff.[30] **Metula** Metula is led by David Azulai, who became its leader in
2015.[_citation needed_]

**Mevaseret Zion** Mevaseret Zion is led by Yoram Shimon, who was first
elected in 2013.[95] Shimon was re-elected unopposed in 2018.[74]

Mevaseret Zion's council consists of 15 seats presently held by six
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Migdal** Migdal is led by Natanel Alfasi, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Migdal HaEmek** Migdal HaEmek is led by Eli Barada, who was first elected in
1998.[133] City Councillor Yeki Ben-Haim, who challenged Barada in 2018, and
former City Councillor Hen Shaul have both announced their intention to run to
replace Barada in 2023.[134]

**Mi'ilya** Mi'ilya is led by Hatem Aaref.[_citation needed_]

**Modi'in Illit** Modi'in Illit is led by Ya'akov Asher Gutterman, a member of
Degel HaTorah who became its leader in 2000.[_citation needed_]

**Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut** Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut is led by Haim Bibas, who
was first elected in 2008. Bibas was re-elected unopposed in 2018.[74]
Maccabim-Re'ut, which acts as an autonomous Borough within Modi'in-Maccabim-
Re'ut, will hold an election for its nine-member board.[_citation needed_]

**Mitzpe Ramon** Mitzpe Ramon is led by Roni Marom, who was first elected in
2013.[_citation needed_]

Mitzpe Ramon's council consists of nine seats presently held by six
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Mashhad** Mashhad is led by Vajiya Saliman, who was first elected via runoff
in 2018.[30]

**Nahariya** Nahariya is led by Ronen Marelly, who defeated incumbent Jackie
Sabag in 2018.[_citation needed_]

**Nof HaGalil** Nof HaGalil is led by Ronen Plot, who was first elected in a
special election in 2016. Plot was re-elected unopposed in 2018.[74]

Plot's party won 13 seats on Nof HaGalil's council, with three seats going to
the list for coexistence and one going to the United Religious
Front.[_citation needed_]

**Nahf** Nahf is led by Abd Al-Bast Kis, who was first elected via runoff in
2018.[30]

**Ness Ziona** Ness Ziona is led by Shmuel Boxer, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Nazareth** Nazareth is led by Ali Sallam, who was first elected in
2013.[_citation needed_]

**Nesher** Nesher is led by Roi Levi, who was first elected in 2018.[_citation
needed_]

**Netivot** Netivot is led by Yehiel Zohar, who was first elected in 1989.[26]

**Netanya** Netanya is led by Miriam Feirberg, who became its mayor in
1998.[_citation needed_]

**Ofakim** Ofakim is led by Itzik Danino, who was first elected in 2013.[26]

**Omer** Omer is led by Pini Badash, who became its leader in 1990.[_citation
needed_]

**Or Akiva** Or Akiva is led by Yaakov Edri, who became its leader in 2013,
previously serving between 1989 and 2003.[135] In January 2022, the State
Attorney Indicted Edri on charges of accepting bribes, fraud and breach of
trust, as well as violent and tax felonies.[136] On 13 November, City
Councillor Moshe Biton announced his intention to run for Mayor.[137]

**Or Yehuda** Or Yehuda is led by Liat Shohat, who was first elected via
special election in September 2015.[138]

**Oranit** Oranit is led by Nir Bartal, who was first elected in 2018.[139]

**Sajur** Sajur is led by Jaber Hamud, who was re-elected in 2018 by a 10-vote
margin.[_citation needed_]

**Sakhnin** Sakhnin is led by Safuat Abu-Ri'ya, a member of Hadash, who was
first elected in 2018, defeating incumbent Mazen Ghnaim.[_citation needed_]

Sakhnin's council consists of 15 seats presently held by 12 parties.[_citation
needed_]

**Savyon** Savyon is led by Motti Landau, who was first elected in
2013.[_citation needed_]

Savyon's council consists of nine seats presently held by three
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Eilabun** Eilabun is led by Samir Abu Ziyyad, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Ilut** Ilut is led by Abrahim Abu Ras.[30]

**Ein Mahil** Ein Mahil is led by Ahmed Habiballa, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Ein Qiniyye** Ein Qiniyye is one of four local councils in the Golan Heights
who were managed, until 2018, by Israeli-appointed local residents, and who
first held local elections in 2018.[101] Due to a boycott, only two candidates
ran for the council's leadership. Wahil Mugrabi, who received 20 votes, and
Samira Rada Amran, who only received one vote.[140]

**Acre** Acre is led by Shimon Lankri, who was first elected in 2003. Lankri
announced in November 2022 that he won't seek re-election in 2023.[141]

**Immanuel** Immanuel is led by Eliyahu Gafni, a member of Agudat
Yisrael.[_citation needed_]

Immanuel's council consists of nine seats presently held by six parties, with
Gafni, whose party didn't win any seats, serving as the council's tenth
member.[_citation needed_]

**Isfiya** Isfiya is led by Bahij Mansur, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

Isfiya's council consists of 11 seats presently held by 11 parties.[_citation
needed_]

**Afula** Afula is led by Avii Elkabetz, who was elected in 2018. Elkabetz was
previously mayor from 2005 to 2013.[_citation needed_] Elkabetz and former
mayor Yitzhak Meron have both expressed interest in seeking re-election, as
have Rami Yosef, City Councillor Shlomo Melihi,[142] and Dov Hirsch.[_citation
needed_]

**Arraba** Arraba is led by Omar Wahad, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

**Arad** Arad is led by Nissan Ben Hemo, who was first elected via special
election in 2015 and was re-elected in 2018.[_citation needed_]

**Ar'ara** Ar'ara is led by Murder Yunis, who was first elected via runoff in
2018.[30]

Ar'ara's council consists of 13 seats presently held by eight
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Ar'arat an-Naqab** Ar'arat an-Naqab is led by Narif Abu Arar.[_citation
needed_]

**Fureidis** Fureidis is led by Ayman Mari, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

Fureidis' council consists of 11 seats presently held by seven parties. Mari's
list was not elected to the council, but he serves as its twelfth
member.[_citation needed_]

**Fassuta** Fassuta is led by Adgar Dachuar.[_citation needed_]

**Peki'in** Peki'in is led by Sawid Swid.[_citation needed_]

**Pardes Hanna-Karkur** Pardes Hanna-Karkur is led by Hagar Perry Yagur, who
was first elected in 2018.[30]

Pardes Hanna-Karkur's council consists of 15 seats presently held by eight
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Pardesiya** Pardesiya is led by Tal Gurky, who was first elected in
2013.[95]

**Petah Tikva** Petah Tikva is led by Rami Greenberg, who was first elected in
2018, defeating incumbent mayor Itzik Braverman. City Councillor Orna Davidai
and former advisor to Member of the Knesset Nir Orbach Or Barak have both
announced their intention to run for Mayor in 2023. Former Mayor Uri Ahad has
expressed an interest in potentially running for Mayor.[143][144]

Petah Tikva's council presently consists of 29 seats. 5 Are held by
Greenberg's Hithadshut Party, 4 are held by Yesh Atid, 4 by Shas, 3 by
Braverman's Echpat party, 3 by The Jewish Home, and three by the Bitzuistim
party. Mechubarim, Excelling with Gennady, and United Torah Judaism each hold
two seats, while Likud holds a single seat.[_citation needed_]

**Safed** Safed is led by Shuki Ohana, a member of Likud,[_citation needed_]
who was first elected in 2018 via runoff.[30]

**Kedumim** Kedumim is led by Hananel Dorani, who was first elected in
2007.[_citation needed_]

**Kadima-Zoran** Kadima-Zoran is led by Keren Green, who was first elected in
2018.[30]

**Qalansawe** Qalansawe is led by Abd al-Bast Salama, who was first elected
via runoff in 2018.[30]

**Katzrin** Katzrin is led by Dimitry Afratsav, who was first elected in
2013.[_citation needed_]

Katzrin's council consists of nine seats presently held by three
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Kiryat Ono** Kiryat Ono is led by Israel Gal, who was first elected in
2013.[_citation needed_]

**Kiryat Arba** Kiryat Arba is led by Eliyahu Libman, who was first elected in
2013.[_citation needed_]

**Kiryat Ata** Kiryat Ata is led by Ya'akov Peretz, who became its leader in
1996.[_citation needed_]

**Kiryat Bialik** Kiryat Bialik is led by Eli Dukorsky, who was first elected
in 2008. Dukorsky was re-elected unopposed in 2018.[74] Lawyer Maimon Pe'er
has announced his intention to challenge Dukorsky in 2023.[145]

**Kiryat Gat** Kiryat Gat is led by Aviram Dahari, who was first elected in
2003.[_citation needed_]

**Kiryat Tiv'on** Kiryat Tiv'on is led by Iddo Greenblum, who was first
elected via runoff in 2018.[30]

**Kiryat Yam** Kiryat Yam is led by David Even Zur, who was first elected in
2013.[_citation needed_]

**Kiryat Ye'arim** Kiryat Ye'arim re-elected incumbent Avraham Rosental, who
died before being sworn in for a second term. Yitzhak Ravitz, a councillor
from Rosental's party, was appointed as the council's acting leader, before
being replaced by Yanki Flei in a 2019 special election.[_citation needed_]

**Kiryat Motzkin** Kiryat Motzkin is led by Haim Tzuri, who became its mayor
in 1993. Tzuri will seek re-election despite being charged with Bribery and
Breach of Privacy in June 2022.[146] He will be opposed by Tziki Avishar, the
leader of the local opposition.[147]

**Kiryat Malakhi** Kiryat Malakhi is led by Eliyahu Zohar, a member of The
Jewish Home, who was first elected in 2013.[_citation needed_]

Kiryat Malakhi's council consists of 13 seats presently held by seven
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Kiryat Ekron** Kiryat Ekron is led by Hovev Tsabari, who was first elected
in 2013.[95]

**Kiryat Shmona** Kiryat Shmona is led by Avichai Stern, who was elected in
2018, defeating his predecessor is a runoff.[_citation needed_]

**Karnei Shomron** Karnei Shomron is led by Yigal Lahav, who was first elected
in 2013.[_citation needed_]

**Rameh** Rameh is led by Shauki Latif.[_citation needed_]

**Ra'anana** Ra'anana is led by Haim Broida, who was first elected in 2018,
defeating his predecessor Eitan Ginzburg in a runoff.[_citation needed_]

Ra'anana's council consists of 19 seats presently held by eight
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Rahat** Rahat is led by Faiz Abu Sahiban, who was first elected in 2018,
defeating his predecessor.[_citation needed_]

**Ramla** Ramla is led by Michael Videl, a member of Likud, who was first
elected via special election in 2017.[_citation needed_]

**Ramat Gan** Ramat Gan is led by Carmel Shama, who was first elected in 2018,
defeating Incumbent Mayor Yisrael Zinger in a runoff.[_citation needed_] Liad
Ilani, who was a candidate in 2018 and a member of Shama's municipal
coalition, left the coalition in April 2021[148] and announced his intention
to challenge Shama in 2023.[149]

Ramat Gan's council consists of 25 seats presently held by 13
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Ramat HaSharon** Ramat HaSharon is led by Aviram Grover, who became its
leader in 2016.[_citation needed_] Grover was re-elected via runoff in
2018.[30]

**Ramat Yishai** Ramat Yishai is led by Ofer Ben-Eliezer, who was first
elected in 2008.[_citation needed_]

Ramat Yishai's council consists of nine seats presently held by five
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Rehovot** Rehovot is led by Rahamim Malul, who became its mayor in 2009, and
was re-elected unopposed in 2018.[_citation needed_] Malul has announced that
he will seek re-election in 2023.[150] He will be opposed by former Deputy
Mayor Matan Dill.[151]

**Reineh** Reineh is led by Jamil Bassul.[_citation needed_]

**Rekhasim** Rekhasim is currently led by Dan Cohen, who is in a rotation
agreement with Yitzhak Reich.[_citation needed_]

**Rishon LeZion** Rishon LeZion is led by Raz Kinstlich, who was first elected
in 2018, defeating incumbent Dov Zur.[_citation needed_]

**Rosh HaAyin** Rosh HaAyin is led by Shalom Ben-Moshe, who was first elected
in 2013.[152] Ben-Moshe was re-elected via runoff in 2018.[30]

**Rosh Pinna** Rosh Pinna is led by Motti Hatiel, who was first elected via
runoff in 2018.[30]

**Sderot** Sderot is led by Alon Davidi, who was first elected in
2013.[_citation needed_]

**Sha'ab** Sha'ab is led by Mahmud Buqa'i, who was first elected in 2018.[30]

**Shaqib al- Salam** Shaqib al-Salam is led by Amar Abu-Ma'amar.[_citation
needed_]

Shaqib al-Salam's council consists of 11 seats presently held by five
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Shefa-Amr** Shefa-Amr is led by Ursan Yassin, who was elected in 2018.
Yassin previously served as mayor between 1998 and 2008.[_citation needed_]

**Shibli–Umm al-Ghanam** Shibli–Umm al-Ghanam is led by Munir Shibli, who was
first elected in 2018.[30]

**Shlomi** Shlomi is led by Gabriel Ne'eman.[_citation needed_]

**Shoham** Shoham is led by Eitan Petigro, who was first in 2018.[_citation
needed_]

**Tamra** Tamra is led by Suhil Diab, who was first elected in 2013[_citation
needed_] and re-elected in 2018 via runoff.[30]

**Tayibe** Tayibe held its municipal election in 2019, rather than in
2018.[82] Shua Masrawa Mansur, who was first elected in 2011, was re-
elected.[153] He will be opposed by Abd al-Hakim Hajj Yahya.[_citation
needed_]

Tayibe's council consists of 15 seats presently held by 11 parties. Mansur's
party was not elected to the council, but he serves as its sixteenth
representative.[153]

**Tel Aviv**

Main article: 2024 Tel Aviv mayoral election

Tel Aviv is led by Ron Huldai, who was first elected in 1998.[154] Huldai was
re-elected in 2018, defeating former Deputy Mayor Asaf Zamir.[_citation
needed_] Huldai has announced that he will seek re-election in 2023.[154] His
challengers are Orna Barbivai, the former Minister of Economy, a retired major
general in the Israel Defense Forces, and Yuval Zellner, former member of the
Knesset.

**Tel Sheva** Tel Sheva is led by Omar Abu Rakyik, who was first elected in
2018, where he won the runoff after his opponent withdrew from the
race.[_citation needed_]

**Tiberias** Tiberias was led by Ron Cobi, who was first elected in 2018 and
was ousted as mayor on 14 January 2020 over his failure to approve a budget,
due to disagreements with city council members.[155] Cobi has announced his
intention to run for Mayor, as have Lawyers Shani Ilouz,[156] Meir
Almaikes[157] and Aviv Yitzhak.[158]

In July 2023, the Knesset passed a law known informally as the 'Tiberias Law',
to allow caretaker mayor Boaz Yosef to run as a candidate for mayor in that
city. The law was criticized for benefiting Yosef, an ally of Shas Leader
Aryeh Deri, since a incumbent would have an advantage, and only applies to the
city of Tiberias.[159] The law was brought to the supreme court, who
interpreted it to only apply to the next election (ie elections following
2023).[160]

**Tira** Tira is led by Ma'amun Abed Alhi, who was first elected in
2018.[_citation needed_]

Tira's council consists of 15 seats presently held by 11 parties.[_citation
needed_]

**Tirat Carmel** Tirat Carmel is led by Aryeh Tal, who became its leader in
2009, previously serving between 1993 and 2003.[_citation needed_] Tal was re-
elected in 2018 via runoff.[30]

**Tuba-Zangariyye** Tuba-Zangariyye is led by Visam Pazi Omar, who was first
elected in 2018.[_citation needed_]

**Tur'an** Tur'an is led Mazen Adui, who was elected in 2018, defeating his
predecessor in the first round.[_citation needed_]

**Umm Al-Fahm** Umm al-Fahm is led by Samir Mahamed, who was first elected in
2018 via runoff.[30]

**Yanuh-Jat** Yanuh-Jat is led by Muammad Sa'ad.[_citation needed_]

Yanuh-Jat's council consists of nine seats presently held by nine
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Yarka** Yarka is led by Wahib Habish.[_citation needed_]

**Yavne'el** Yavne'el is led by Shanir Arish, who defeated his predecessor via
runoff in 2018.[_citation needed_]

**Yavne** Yavne is led by Roei Gabay, who was elected Mayor via special
election in November 2022 to replace his predecessor, Zvi Gov-Ari, who died in
office. Gabay defeated acting mayor Haim Masing, winning 51% of the vote to
Masing's 47%.[161]

Yavne's council consists of 15 seats, 5 held by the Our Yavne party, and 10
divided between six smaller parties.[_citation needed_]

**Yehud-Monosson** Yehud-Monosson is led by Ya'ala Maclise, who was first
elected in 2013[95] and re-elected via runoff in 2018.[30] She will be
challenged by City Councillor Lior Gilboa, who announced his bid for Mayor in
November 2022.[_citation needed_]

Neve Monosson, which acts as an autonomous Borough within Yehud-Monosson, will
hold an election for its nine-member board. the Kolenu Neve party, who
currently hold all nine seats, will run for both the Borough and City
councils.[_citation needed_]

**Yesud HaMa'ala** Yesud HaMa'ala is led by Ilan Or, who was first elected in
2013.[_citation needed_]

**Yafa an-Naseriyye** Yafa an-Naseriyye is led by Maher Halila, who was first
elected in 2018.[_citation needed_]

**Yokneam Illit** Yokneam Illit is led by Simon Alfasi, who became its mayor
in 1989. In June 2022, Alfasi announced that he will not seek re-election in
2023. Several candidates have announced their intention to run, including City
Councillor Yaron Hen, former Member of the Knesset Leah Fadida and deputy
Mayor Roman Peres.[162]

Yokneam Illit's council consists of 13 seats presently held by seven
parties.[_citation needed_]

**Yeruham** Yeruham is led by Tal Ohana, who was first elected in 2018,
replacing Michael Biton.[163]

Yeruham's council consists of 11 seats, 4 held by Ohana's 'One Yeruham' Party
and seven held by four smaller parties.[_citation needed_]

**Zarzir** Zarzir is led by Amir Mzarib, who was first elected via runoff in
2018.[30]

**Zemer** Zemer is led by Tamim Hazralla, who was first elected via runoff in
2018.[30]

**Zikhron Ya'akov** Zikhron Ya'akov is led by Ziv Deshe, who became its leader
in July 2016.[_citation needed_]

## Other authorities

[edit]

Both Industrial Local Councils [he], Ne'ot Hovav and Migdal Tefen, do not hold
elections as the leader of their council is appointed by law by the Interior
Minister.[164]

Sha'ar HaShomron, a local council that was established in May 2022 as a merger
of Etz Efraim and Sha'arei Tikva, is currently led by Avi Roeh, who was
appointed by the Interior minister for a four-year term.[165]

The Committee of the Jewish Community of Hebron, which was established in
2017,[166] governs approximately 1,000 Israeli citizens who live in Area H-2
of the city.[167] The Committee held its first election in September 2022,
which was won by Eyal Gelman.[168]

Tel Mond elected in November 2020 its mayor Lin Kaplan and it's council[169]
and therefore it will hold elections on a later date than most places.

Yoav Regional Council held its election in May 2023 due to the resignation of
its leader, Matti Sarfati Harkavi, after her election to the Knesset.[170]
Natti Lerner was chosen as mayor in the second round.[171]

## External links

[edit]

  * Ministry of Interior (27 February 2024). פורטל הבחירות לרשויות המקומיות. _The municipal elections portal,gov.il_ (in Hebrew and Arabic). Retrieved 26 February 2024.

## References

[edit]

  1. **^** "Feb. 27: Jerusalem Mayor Moshe Lion reelected; exit poll: Tel Aviv's Huldai set to retain power". _The Times of Israel_. 27 February 2024. Retrieved 29 February 2024.
  2. **^** Busydan, Ruti (18 July 2022). חולדאי: אתמודד ב-2023 בפעם האחרונה. _Tel Aviv Online_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 2 November 2022.
  3. **^** על הבחירות. _GOV.IL_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 2 November 2022.
  4. **^** Keller-Lynn, Carrie. "Wartime Knesset's first bill will be to push back municipal elections until January". _The Times of Israel_. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
  5. **^** Keller-Lynn, Carrie (23 October 2023). "Wartime Knesset pushes municipal elections to January 30, instead of next week". _The Times of Israel_. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
  6. **^** הצעת חוק לדחיית הבחירות הכלליות לרשויות המקומיות, התשפ"ד-2023. _knesset.gov.il_. 24 October 2023. Retrieved 24 October 2023.
  7. **^** הכנסת אישרה: הבחירות לרשויות המקומיות נדחו ל-30 בינואר 2024 | כלכליסט. _calcalist_ (in Hebrew). 23 October 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
  8. **^** Keller-Lynn, Carrie (6 December 2023). "Smotrich asks for local elections to be delayed again amid Israel-Hamas war". _The Times of Israel_.
  9. **^** Algemeiner, The (1 January 2024). "Israel Postpones Local Elections as Hundreds of Soldiers Serving in Gaza War Unable to Run". _Algemeiner.com_. Retrieved 2 January 2024.
  10. **^** בחירות 2023. _Maagar Mochot_. 19 February 2022. Retrieved 3 November 2022.
  11. **^** חובה דתית-מוסרית-כלכלית להצביע בבחירות חמישיות. _סרוגים_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 3 November 2022.
  12. **^** בחירות לרשויות המקומיות 2023 תאריך סיקור שוטף - חדשות מקומיות המרוץ ללשכה. _חדשות מקומיות_ (in Hebrew). 27 May 2022. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  13. **^** בחירות 2023.
  14. **^** Mazuz, Elhanan (31 October 2022). בחירות חמישיות תוך ארבע שנים: איך הגענו לכאן? | סקירה מקיפה. _Now 14_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  15. **^** Saban, Itzik (31 May 2022). בכיר במשטרה: "לפני בחירות במגזר הערבי, רף האלימות כלפי מועמדים עולה" [Officer in the police force: "Before elections in arab localities, violence towards candidates increases"]. _www.israelhayom.co.il_. Retrieved 3 September 2022.
  16. **^** כיצד נערכים?. _GOV.IL_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 2 November 2022.
  17. **^** Cohen, Shirit Avitan (10 May 2022). יו"ר השלטון האזורי: "מחיר הקרקע בישראל מוגזם ופראי". _Globes_. Retrieved 15 January 2023.
  18. **^** Huri, Maor (31 October 2018). אחוזי ההצבעה עלו: מי מחכה לקולות החיילים?. _מקור ראשון_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 15 January 2023.
  19. **^** מועצה אזורית אלבטוף - المجلس الاقليمي البطوف. _el-batouf-region.muni.il_. Archived from the original on 17 December 2022. Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  20. **^** N12 - הסיבוב השני בבחירות: ההצבעה החלה. _N12_. 13 November 2018. Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  21. **^** ביוב זורם וחוטי חשמל גלויים: כך נראות כיתות תלמידי היישובים הלא מוכרים בנגב. _www.makorrishon.co.il_. Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  22. **^** סגן ראש מועצת באר טוביה המואשם במעשים מגונים בעובדת: "הכל פוליטיקה". _כאן דרום - אשדוד_ (in Hebrew). 24 October 2019. Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  23. **^** דרור שור תושב ביצרון מתמודד לראשות המועצה האזורית באר טוביה. _www.yeshuvnik.net_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 8 July 2023.
  24. **^** "החלת ריבונות היא המהלך היחיד הנכון". _Makor Rishon_ (in Hebrew). 23 January 2020. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  25. **^** לשכת ראש המועצה. _מועצה אזורית בני שמעון_ (in Hebrew). 11 August 2022. Retrieved 10 January 2023.
  26. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ הבוקר שאחרי: תוצאות בחירות 2018 בבאר שבע ובנגב. _mynetbeersheva_ (in Hebrew). 31 October 2018. Retrieved 10 January 2023.
  27. **^** תעודת זהות. _brener.org.il_ (in Hebrew). Archived from the original on 5 June 2023. Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  28. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Goren, Yuval (5 December 2012). הוכרזו הזוכים בבחירות ל-27 מועצות אזוריות. _Ma'ariv nrg_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  29. **^** נתונים ארציים סבב א'. _sevev.moin.gov.il_. Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  30. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ _**j**_ _**k**_ _**l**_ _**m**_ _**n**_ _**o**_ _**p**_ _**q**_ _**r**_ _**s**_ _**t**_ _**u**_ _**v**_ _**w**_ _**x**_ _**y**_ _**z**_ _**aa**_ _**ab**_ _**ac**_ _**ad**_ _**ae**_ _**af**_ _**ag**_ _**ah**_ _**ai**_ _**aj**_ _**ak**_ _**al**_ נבחרו ראשי מועצות בסיבוב השני. _פורטל הכרמל והצפון_ (in Hebrew). 13 November 2018. Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  31. **^** מאיר צור - ראש המועצה הנבחר במועצה אזורית הערבה התיכונה. _GOV.IL_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 25 November 2022.
  32. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ רשימת המועצות האזוריות. _www.mhh.org.il_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 25 November 2022.
  33. **^** מי הן שש ראשות הערים החדשות ומה הסיבות שבגללן הן נבחרו. _Israel Hayom_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  34. **^** יורם קרין. _Maoz_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  35. **^** עידן גרינבאום נבחר לראש המועצה האזורית עמק הירדן. _calcalist_. 23 February 2016. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  36. **^** Zuri, Matan; Kuriel, Ilana (2 June 2015). פחות משנה אחרי שאיבד את רגליו ב"צוק איתן": גדי ירקוני נבחר לראש מועצת אשכול. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 3 November 2022.
  37. **^** מתמודד חדש לראשות מועצת גן רווה: האם יצליח להדיח את ראש המועצה הוותיק?. _mynetrehovot_ (in Hebrew). 17 June 2018. Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  38. **^** רותם ידלין - 40 עד 40: המנהיגות הצעירה של ישראל - גלובס. _Globes_. Retrieved 11 January 2023.[_permanent dead link_]
  39. **^** עובד נור נבחר לראש מועצת גלבוע. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). 2 June 2015. Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  40. **^** עכשיו זה רשמי: שניר פרידמן הכריז על מועמדותו לראשות המועצה האזורית הגלבוע. _רדיו קול רגע_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 1 January 2023.
  41. **^** Ayidan, Yaniv (30 November 2022). "המועצה בקיפאון מתמשך, נקראתי לדגל": דני עטר יתמודד בבחירות 2023. _EmekNews_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 8 July 2023.
  42. **^** אורי קלנר יתמודד לראשות מועצה אזורית גולן. _Arutz Sheva_ (in Hebrew). 21 May 2023. Retrieved 8 July 2023.
  43. **^** שלמה נאמן ניצח בגוש עציון. _Arutz Sheva_ (in Hebrew). 13 November 2018. Retrieved 10 January 2023.
  44. **^** יוחאי דמרי נבחר לראשות מועצת הר חברון. _Srugim_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  45. **^** יוחאי דמרי לא יתמודד לקדנציה נוספת בהר חברון. _Arutz Sheva_ (in Hebrew). 21 May 2023. Retrieved 8 July 2023.
  46. **^** בחירות 2018. _www.hefer.org.il_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 1 December 2022.
  47. **^** חנן גינת נבחר כיו. _www.ereverev.co.il_. Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  48. **^** בחירות לרשות המקומית 2018. _www.eilot.org.il_ (in Hebrew). Archived from the original on 11 January 2023. Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  49. **^** ראש מועצת חבל יבנה הנבחר: "הגיע הזמן לאחד כוחות ולהתחיל לעבוד קשה". _Kippah_ (in Hebrew). 25 December 2013. Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  50. **^** ניצחון בחוף אשקלון: איתמר רביבו נבחר לראשות המועצה. _Srugim_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  51. **^** Karmi, Yaron (30 October 2018). אסיף איזק הוא ראש המועצה האזורית חוף הכרמל – בחירות 2018 - תוצאות סופיות מאת משרד הפנים. _חי פה - תאגיד החדשות של חיפה והסביבה_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  52. **^** חוף השרון: אליהו ברכה נבחר לראשות המועצה. _Maariv nrg_ (in Hebrew). 26 April 2009. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  53. **^** Ayidan, Yaniv (18 October 2018). אייל בצר: "תושבי העמק יבחרו בערכיות ובאחריות". _עמקניוז - חדשות העמק_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  54. **^** ראשי מועצה קודמים | מועצה אזורית לכיש. _lachish.org.il_. Retrieved 28 November 2022.
  55. **^** אחרי 20 שנה בתפקיד: ראש מועצת לכיש לא יתמודד בבחירות המוניציפליות. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). 4 November 2022. Retrieved 28 November 2022.
  56. **^** Goldstein, Tani (28 November 2007). הבחירות למועצות האזוריות: ניצחונות למכהנים. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  57. **^** גליל תחתון: מי יתמודד בבחירות 2023 מול ראש המועצה ניצן פלג?. _mynetafula_ (in Hebrew). 12 June 2022. Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  58. **^** דו"ח חריף של המבקר על התרומות לבחירות: בנט נקנס ב-65 אלף שקל - Forbes Israel. _Forbes Israel_ (in Hebrew). 21 August 2013. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  59. **^** N12 - המנצחים המפסידים: תוצאות האמת. _N12_. 31 October 2018. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  60. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ הבחירות במועצות האזוריות: במגידו ובגלבוע אין שינוי, ראש חדש למטה אשר ולחוף הכרמל - מיינט קיבוץ - חדשות הקיבוץ. _Mynet Kibbutz_. 9 March 2019. Archived from the original on 9 March 2019. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  61. **^** נבחרת הדירקטורים: השער נפתח למינוי פוליטיקאים. _calcalist_ (in Hebrew). 1 January 2023. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  62. **^** פורת, עדו בן (14 April 2022). שרת הפנים שקד הכריעה: צור הדסה תהפוך למועצה מקומית. _ערוץ 7_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 1 December 2022.
  63. **^** לראשונה במגידו: ראש מועצה מכהן יתמודד לקדנציה שלישית ברציפות. _mynetafula_ (in Hebrew). 27 June 2022. Retrieved 29 November 2022.
  64. **^** מתנחלי השמאל - וואלה! חדשות. _וואלה!_ (in Hebrew). 26 April 2018. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  65. **^** במנשה לא מחליפים סוס מנצח: אילן שדה ימשיך לקדנציה שישית. _בלינקר_ (in Hebrew). 16 October 2018. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  66. **^** שי חג'ג' יו"ר מרכז השלטון האזורי מתארח בזירה המקומית של וואלה - וואלה! מקומי. _וואלה!_ (in Hebrew). 1 June 2022. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  67. **^** מהפך בצפון: עו"ד עמית סופר ניצח בבחירות לראשות מועצת מרום גליל. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). 20 January 2009. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  68. **^** ראש המועצה | מועצה אזורית מבואות החרמון (in Hebrew). Archived from the original on 12 January 2023. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  69. **^** תושבי משגב בחרו בדני עברי לראשות המועצה. _זהר.נט_ (in Hebrew). 4 November 2018. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  70. **^** הסתיימה ההצבעה: שי רייכנר הוא ראש המועצה החדש של נחל שורק. _Kippah_ (in Hebrew). 26 October 2021. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  71. **^** היום נערכו לראשונה הבחירות בנווה מדבר: לפי המועצה, רק 10% מהתושבים היו זכאים להצביע בבחירות. _Haaretz_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  72. **^** ראשי המועצה. _www.rng.org.il_ (in Hebrew). Archived from the original on 12 January 2023. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  73. **^** 60.5% הצבעה בממוצע נרשמו בבחירות למועצות האזוריות. _Haaretz_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 15 January 2023.
  74. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ "מסיבת הניצחון כבר מוכנה": המתמודדים שכבר "ניצחו" בבחירות לרשויות המקומיות. _Israel Hayom_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  75. **^** הפתעה בחוף אשקלון: ראש המועצה המכהן בחוץ. _www.israelhayom.co.il_. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
  76. **^** שתי ח"כיות מיש עתיד הודיעו על פרישה. _סרוגים_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 1 December 2022.
  77. **^** Kingsley, Patrick; Kershner, Isabel (7 October 2023). "'We Are at War,' Netanyahu Says After Hamas Attacks Israel". _The New York Times_. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved 8 October 2023.
  78. **^** אדיר נעמן ניצח בבחירות - יכהן כראש מועצת שפיר. _כאן דרום - אשקלון_ (in Hebrew). 6 November 2018. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
  79. **^** "Israel's Ministry of Interior: Results of Special Elections Aug. 6 2015" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 10 January 2023.
  80. **^** יוסי דגן נבחר ברוב מוחץ. _Kippah_ (in Hebrew). 31 October 2018. Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  81. **^** Porat, Iddo Ben (10 May 2022). כפי שנחשף בערוץ 7: מועצה מקומית חדשה - "שער השומרון". _Arutz Sheva_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 11 January 2023.
  82. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ בחירות מקומיות נערכו בארבע רשויות, בבאקה אל-גרבייה אין עדיין הכרעה. _הארץ_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 1 December 2022.
  83. **^** זלץ: "אין לי ספק שכל תפקיד ציבורי צריך להיות לזמן קצוב". _רדיו קול רגע_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 1 January 2023.
  84. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ פוזרו מליאות הרשויות אבו גוש ובית אריה - עופרים, בעקבות אי אישור תקציב לשנת 2022. _GOV.IL_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 1 December 2022.
  85. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ משרד הפנים קבע - ראש מועצת אבו גוש לא יודח מתפקידו - וואלה! מקומי. _וואלה!_ (in Hebrew). 14 June 2022. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
  86. **^** גנץ מוביל בבנימין; סיבוב שני בגוש עציון. _סרוגים_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 February 2023.
  87. **^** ראש מועצת אלפי מנשה, שי רוזנצוויג, ויתר על העלאה בשכר. _Arutz Sheva_ (in Hebrew). 18 April 2020. Retrieved 13 February 2023.
  88. **^** ראש עיר חדש לאריאל: אליהו שבירו. _Arutz Sheva_ (in Hebrew). 4 March 2013. Retrieved 13 February 2023.
  89. **^** "Ashdod mayor ousted after 33 years". _The Jerusalem Post_. 12 November 2008. Retrieved 13 February 2023.
  90. **^** ראשי מועצה לשעבר. _Azor Local Council_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 15 January 2023.
  91. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ הודעה בדבר תוצאות הבחירות לראש הרשות המקומית באקה אל–גרבייה. _rfa.justice.gov.il_. Retrieved 4 December 2022.[_dead link_]
  92. **^** Sharvit, Yogev (14 June 2021). איחוד תל אביב-בת ים ירד מהפרק, אבל הבעיות לא נפתרו. _Globes_. Retrieved 6 December 2022.
  93. **^** Tal, Dudi (8 May 2022). בחירות: האם שלומי לחיאני מתכנן להתמודד לראשות העיר?. _השקמה בת ים_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 6 December 2022.
  94. **^** מסימני הבחירות: בבת ים מתחילים להכין את מטות השטח. _mynetbatyam_ (in Hebrew). 13 July 2022. Retrieved 6 December 2022.
  95. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ Levin, Yuri (6 November 2013). תוצאות סיבוב הבחירות השני פורסמו. _Israel Hayom_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 24 January 2023.
  96. **^** Azulai, Moran; Rubinstein, Roei (31 October 2018). משפחת לוי חוזרת: סגן שר השיכון ניצח בבית שאן. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 5 December 2022.
  97. **^** Schneider, Tal (20 June 2018). סגן שר השיכון ח״כ ז׳קי לוי יתמודד על ראשות עיריית בית שאן. _Globes_. Retrieved 5 December 2022.
  98. **^** בחירות 2023: כדורגלן העבר איתן טייב יתמודד לראשות העיר בית שאן. _mynetafula_ (in Hebrew). 7 August 2022. Retrieved 5 December 2022.
  99. **^** בית שאן. _רדיו קול רגע_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 5 December 2022.
  100. **^** מפתיע: איתי וייסברג הודיע כי לא יתמודד בבחירות לראשות מועצת בנימינה-גבעת עדה. _מגדלור ניוז_ (in Hebrew). 23 September 2022. Retrieved 6 December 2022.
  101. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ N12 - בחירות מקומיות גם אצל הדרוזים בגולן. _N12_. 7 January 2018. Retrieved 4 December 2022.
  102. **^** Peterson, Ofer (16 February 2021). מקצרים טווחים. _Israel Hayom_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 February 2023.
  103. **^** עודד רביבי. _www.efrat.muni.il_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 February 2023.
  104. **^** ראש העיר הטרי של אילת, אלי לנקרי: "מתכוון לפעול בנחישות מול הממשלה החדשה". _08 News_ (in Hebrew). 21 June 2021. Retrieved 2 December 2022.
  105. **^** Ohion, Meir; Hilai, Sivan (10 August 2021). ראש עיר חדש לאילת: המועמד של נתניהו הפסיד בבחירות. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 2 December 2022.
  106. **^** החודש הקשה של אריה דרעי. _Haaretz_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 3 December 2022.
  107. **^** אריה דרעי פותח את מערכת הבחירות באלעד ומכריז על המועמד. _בחדרי חרדים_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 3 December 2022.
  108. **^** איימו להפיץ תיעוד מיני מבית כנסת: ראש מועצת גדרה נחקר ושוחרר - וואלה! חדשות. _וואלה!_ (in Hebrew). 27 December 2018. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  109. **^** Aas, Uri (26 October 2003). גם השנה לא יתקיימו בחירות בכפר שחציו בלבנון. _Haaretz_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 20 December 2022.
  110. **^** יוסי אברהמי ניצח בגבעת זאב. _Maariv nrg_ (in Hebrew). 26 November 2008. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  111. **^** ראש העיר חדרה הושעה מתפקידו לחצי שנה בעקבות כתב האישום נגדו. _הארץ_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 10 December 2022.
  112. **^** Azulai, Moran (31 October 2018). שלום, יונה | מאחורי המהפך בחיפה. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  113. **^** Kleiman, Eden (13 July 2021). "מועצת השינוי" • הקואליציה והאופוזיציה בשילוב כוחות | "חייבים להציל את חיפה". _חי פה - תאגיד החדשות של חיפה והסביבה_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  114. **^** Nardi, Guy (18 July 2021). סערה בחיפה: שני סגניה של ראשת העיר עינת קליש-רותם הודחו. _Globes_. Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  115. **^** Broyer, Shaked (4 August 2021). נשלל שכרם של סגני ראש העיר, סגנים חדשים מונו | קליש עזבה את הישיבה. _חי פה - תאגיד החדשות של חיפה והסביבה_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  116. **^** בחיפה מתכוננים לבחירות: תמי ברק חברה שוב לדוד עציוני. _ניוז חיפה והקריות_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  117. **^** Kirschtein, Roli (23 August 2022). רשמית: סביון יעמוד בראש רשימת הגמלאים למועצה. _כלבו – חיפה והקריות_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  118. **^** Rubinstein, Adi (28 January 2021). ראש מועצת חריש: "אנחנו צריכים לשמש כמיקרוקוסמוס של החברה הישראלית". _Israel Hayom_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  119. **^** 12 שנה בלבד מאז תחילת הפיתוח: חריש הוכרזה כעיר בישראל. _Israel Hayom_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  120. **^** Shaked, Lidor (26 October 2022). שנה לבחירות בחריש: פי 4 בעלי זכות בחירה והמרוץ לראשות העיר עדיין רדום. _חריש סיטי_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  121. **^** Bitton, Avihay. פעיל ימינה תקף מפגינה ונעצר; המפלגה גינתה. _www.mazav.co.il_. Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  122. **^** Ptilon, Rina (11 May 2022). יו"ר הליברלים: "הוכחנו את עצמנו בפני הציבור, כל מה שהבטחנו קיימנו" | חריש סיטי. _חריש סיטי_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  123. **^** הודעה בדבר תוצאות הבחירות לראש הרשות המקומית ג'ת. _rfa.justice.gov.il_. Retrieved 8 December 2022.[_dead link_]
  124. **^** הודעה בדבר תוצאות הבחירות למועצת הרשות המקומית ג'ת. _rfa.justice.gov.il_. Retrieved 8 December 2022.[_permanent dead link_]
  125. **^** משה ליאון נבחר לראשות עיריית י-ם; לילה של דרמות בסיבוב השני. _וואלה!_ (in Hebrew). 14 November 2018. Retrieved 10 January 2023.
  126. **^** יו"ר תנועת התעוררות בירושלים עופר ברקוביץ' פורש מתפקידו. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). 27 October 2022. Retrieved 15 December 2022.
  127. **^** חבר המועצה אדיר שוורץ יכהן כיו״ר החדש של סיעת ״התעוררות״. _mynetjerusalem_ (in Hebrew). 10 November 2022. Retrieved 15 December 2022.
  128. **^** פרסום ראשון: רשימה ערבית עצמאית תרוץ לבחירות לעיריית י-ם. _עכשיו 14_ (in Hebrew). 21 July 2022. Retrieved 15 December 2022.
  129. **^** N12 - החשד לסחיטה: המתלונן נגד אשת ראש העיריית כרמיאל מדבר.... _N12_. 5 January 2023. Retrieved 10 January 2023.
  130. **^** מנכ"ל עיריית טבריה עופר אזרד לא פוסל להתמודד על ראשות כפר תבור. _mynetafula_ (in Hebrew). 19 June 2022. Retrieved 16 December 2022.
  131. **^** "יש חשיבות מכרעת לדוגמה האישית כנבחרי הציבור, שהיא הבסיס לרכישת אמון התושבים וגיוסם". _TheMarker_. Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  132. **^** התפקיד החדש של יוספה חליבה. _www.myrehovot.co.il_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 12 January 2023.
  133. **^** האם ראש העיר מגדל העמק אלי ברדה לא יתמודד בבחירות 2023?. _mynetafula_ (in Hebrew). 22 May 2022. Retrieved 17 December 2022.
  134. **^** יחליף את ברדה? עו"ד חן שאול יתמודד לראשות העיר מגדל העמק. _mynetafula_ (in Hebrew). 24 December 2021. Retrieved 17 December 2022.
  135. **^** יעקב אדרי הוא השר לשעבר שנעצר בחשד לשוחד. _Ice_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 15 January 2023.
  136. **^** Morag, Gilad (23 January 2022). "מאות אלפי שקלים מיזמי נדל"ן": ראש העיר אור עקיבא יואשם בשוחד בכפוף לשימוע. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 1 December 2022.
  137. **^** משה ביטון מכריז: אתמודד על ראשות עיריית אור עקיבא. _Migdalor News_ (in Hebrew). 12 November 2022. Retrieved 1 December 2022.
  138. **^** מועמדת 'הבית היהודי' נבחרה לראשות העיר באור יהודה. _Srugim_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 15 January 2023.
  139. **^** הבחירות המקומיות: חולדאי ניצח בת"א, קליש-רותם בחיפה, ליאון וברקוביץ בסיבוב השני בירושלים. _Haaretz_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 15 January 2023.
  140. **^** רצה לראשות מועצת עין־קנייא, וזכתה בקול אחד: הקול של עצמה. _xnet_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 10 January 2023.
  141. **^** "לנהל עיר מעורבת בישראל זה כמעט בלתי אפשרי" • רדיו חיפה 107.5. _1075.fm_ (in Hebrew). 4 November 2022. Retrieved 20 December 2022.
  142. **^** דרמה פוליטית: פרופסור רמי יוסף יתמודד על ראשות העיר עפולה. _mynetafula_ (in Hebrew). 4 October 2022. Retrieved 10 January 2023.
  143. **^** מועמד מפתיע בן 25: יועצו של ח"כ ניר אורבך יתמודד על ראשות העירייה. _מלאבס פתח תקווה_ (in Hebrew). 14 July 2022. Retrieved 21 December 2022.
  144. **^** גורם המקורב לחקירה: "מעריך שיוגש נגד גרינברג כתב אישום, השאלה מתי". _mynetpetahtikva_ (in Hebrew). 21 October 2022. Retrieved 21 December 2022.
  145. **^** עו"ד מימון פאר יתמודד על ראשות העיר בקריית ביאליק. _ניוז חיפה והקריות_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 21 December 2022.
  146. **^** הפרקליטות: כתב אישום יוגש נגד חיים צורי בגין עבירות שוחד בכפוף לשימוע. _mynetkrayot_ (in Hebrew). 6 June 2022. Retrieved 21 December 2022.
  147. **^** ציקי אבישר. _Krayot.com_. Retrieved 1 January 2023.
  148. **^** חילאי, סיון (27 April 2021). מ"מ ראש העיר רמת גן התפטר; שאמה הכהן: "נלחם על כל שקל". _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 22 December 2022.
  149. **^** אני אהיה ראש עיריית רמת גן. _המקומון | חדשות ומבזקים 24/7 מערי המרכז_. Retrieved 22 December 2022.
  150. **^** רחמים מלול הודיע כי יתמודד בבחירות 2023 לראשות העיר. _BE106.NET רחובות_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 22 December 2022.
  151. **^** ריח בחירות באוויר? ההכרזה הדרמטית של חבר מועצת העיר מתן דיל. _mynetrehovot_ (in Hebrew). 8 April 2022. Retrieved 22 December 2022.
  152. **^** Porat, Yehonatan (23 July 2016). בלי עין הרע: ראש העין היא כבר מזמן לא האחות הקטנה של פתח תקווה. _Maariv_. Retrieved 24 January 2023.
  153. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ הודעה בדבר תוצאות הבחירות לראש הרשות המקומית טייבה. _rfa.justice.gov.il_ (in Hebrew).[_permanent dead link_]
  154. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ 594 ימים לבחירות ברשויות - בתל אביב מתחילים למדוד חליפות - וואלה! מקומי. _וואלה!_ (in Hebrew). 14 March 2022. Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  155. **^** Barsky, Anna (14 January 2020). "Ousted Tiberias mayor Ron Cobi appeals to High Court and is refused". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved 14 January 2020.
  156. **^** קוראת לקיים בחירות: עו"ד שני אילוז תתמודד על ראשות העיר טבריה. _mynetafula_ (in Hebrew). 5 December 2020. Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  157. **^** טברייני מלידה - עו"ד מאיר אלמקייס רץ לראשות העיר » obiter - אוביטר (in Hebrew). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
  158. **^** אביב יצחק הכריז על מועמדותו לראשות העיר טבריה: "הפוליטיקה הקטנה חייבת להתחלף במנהיגות". _ערוץ 7_ (in Hebrew). 26 December 2022. Retrieved 1 January 2023.
  159. **^** "Tiberias mayor law is personal, changes rules of election game -NGOs". _The Jerusalem Post | JPost.com_. 5 July 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
  160. **^** "High Court: Tiberias Law applies next mayoral election, Yosef can't run". _The Jerusalem Post | JPost.com_. 31 July 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
  161. **^** Hilai, Sivan (15 November 2022). רועי גבאי נבחר לראשות העיר יבנה. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 14 December 2022.
  162. **^** ראש העיר יקנעם עילית סימון אלפסי פורש: אלה המועמדים להחליף אותו. _mynetafula_ (in Hebrew). 7 June 2022. Retrieved 14 December 2022.
  163. **^** Barkai, Ron (20 October 2020). מודל נשי מנצח: מנהיגות מקומיות מצליחות היכן שכולם כשלו. _Makor Rishon_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 10 January 2023.
  164. **^** Wolfson, Adi (11 March 2017). אחרי האמוניה: מהו הצעד הבא במפרץ חיפה?. _Ynet_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  165. **^** נבחר יו"ר למועצה המקומית החדשה 'שער השומרון'. _סרוגים_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  166. **^** Porat, Iddo Ben (31 August 2017). נחתם צו המנהלת לישוב היהודי בחברון. _ערוץ 7_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  167. **^** "Life in Hebron through the lens of an IDF combat soldier - opinion". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  168. **^** היסטוריה: לראשונה יתקיימו בחירות ביישוב היהודי בחברון. _סרוגים_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  169. **^** אחרי 3 שנות ועדה ממונה: לין קפלן נבחרה לראשות מועצת תל מונד. _mynetnetanya_ (in Hebrew). 9 December 2020. Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  170. **^** נקבע מועד בחירות מיוחד למועצה האזורית יואב. _סרוגים_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 23 December 2022.
  171. **^** נתי לרנר זכה בבחירות לראשות המועצה האזורית יואב. _www.rashuiot.co.il_ (in Hebrew). Retrieved 21 May 2023.

  * v
  * t
  * e

![Israel](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d4/Flag_of_Israel.svg/21px-
Flag_of_Israel.svg.png) Elections in Israel  
---  
Parliamentary|

  * 1920
  * 1923
  * 1925
  * 1931
  * 1944
  * 1949
  * 1951
  * 1955
  * 1959
  * 1961
  * 1965
  * 1969
  * 1973
  * 1977
  * 1981
  * 1984
  * 1988
  * 1992
  * 1996
  * 1999
  * 2003
  * 2006
  * 2009
  * 2013
  * 2015
  * 2019 (Apr)
  * 2019 (Sep)
  * 2020
  * 2021
  * 2022
  * _Next_

  
Prime ministerial|

  * 1996
  * 1999
  * 2001

  
Municipal|

  * 1950
  * 1955
  * 1959
  * 1965
  * 1969
  * 1973
  * 1978
  * 1983
  * 1989
  * 1993
  * 1998
  * 2003
  * 2008
  * 2013
  * 2018
  * 2024

  
  
![](https://login.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1)

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=2024_Israeli_municipal_elections&oldid=1249169314"

Categories:

  * 2024 elections in Israel
  * February 2024 events in Israel
  * Municipal elections in Israel

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 uses Hebrew-language script (he)
  * CS1 Hebrew-language sources (he)
  * Articles containing Hebrew-language text
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from September 2023
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from July 2023
  * Articles with short description
  * Short description is different from Wikidata
  * Use dmy dates from October 2023
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from November 2022
  * All articles lacking reliable references
  * Articles lacking reliable references from January 2023
  * Wikipedia articles in need of updating from November 2022
  * All Wikipedia articles in need of updating
  * Articles with unsourced statements from December 2022
  * CS1 Arabic-language sources (ar)

  * This page was last edited on 3 October 2024, at 15:50 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Code of Conduct
  * Developers
  * Statistics
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  * ![Wikimedia Foundation](/static/images/footer/wikimedia-button.svg)
  * ![Powered by MediaWiki](/w/resources/assets/poweredby_mediawiki.svg)

  *[v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[e]: Edit this template

