Jump to content

Main menu

Main menu

move to sidebar hide

Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * About Wikipedia
  * Contact us

Contribute

  * Help
  * Learn to edit
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Upload file

![](/static/images/icons/wikipedia.png)
![Wikipedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-wordmark-en.svg) ![The
Free Encyclopedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-tagline-en.svg)

Search

Search

Appearance

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Personal tools

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Pages for logged out editors learn more

  * Contributions
  * Talk

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * (Top)

  * 1 Background

  * 2 Constitutional changes

Toggle Constitutional changes subsection

    * 2.1 Electoral system

  * 3 References

Toggle the table of contents

# 2024 Georgian presidential election

5 languages

  * Azərbaycanca
  * Deutsch
  * Français
  * Русский
  * Татарча / tatarça

Edit links

  * Article
  * Talk

English

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

General

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Cite this page
  * Get shortened URL
  * Download QR code

Print/export

  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

In other projects

  * Wikidata item

Appearance

move to sidebar hide

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

For the elections in the state of Georgia, see 2024 Georgia state elections.

2024 Georgian presidential
election![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/0/0f/Flag_of_Georgia.svg/50px-
Flag_of_Georgia.svg.png)

* * *  
  
---  
| <- 2018 | **2024** |   
---|---|---  
---  
  
* * *

| **President before election**  
Salome Zourabichvili  
Independent | **ElectedPresident**   
TBD  
  
---|---  
  
Presidential elections are scheduled to be held in Georgia in 2024 within 45
days after the parliamentary elections on 26 October.[1] Following amendments
to the constitution in 2017, this will be the first indirect vote where the
president is elected through a 300-member College of Electors rather than a
direct vote.[2]

## Background

[edit]

Main articles: Presidency of Salome Zourabichvili and 2024 Georgian
parliamentary election

Despite being endorsed by the ruling Georgian Dream (GD) party during the 2018
presidential election and subsequently winning it, incumbent president
Zourabichvili has distanced herself from the governing party in the following
years, which led to the President's inter-institutional conflict with the
Second Garibashvili government and the Parliament. In at least two occasions,
the Government banned the President from traveling abroad, preventing her from
visiting Ukraine, Poland, Germany, and France.[3] In March 2023, the
Government announced it would file two lawsuits with the Constitutional Court
against the President over her decision to go on an unauthorized visit to
Brussels and Paris and over her refusal to sign outright decrees appointing
ambassador candidates nominated by the Government,[4] before dismissing the
lawsuits several months later. Zourabichvili has increasingly used her veto
power against the Parliament, as such, she has vetoed the bill changing the
composition of Georgia's National Bank, the bill extending scope and time
limits for covert investigations and other bills,[5] most notably the 'foreign
agents' bill.[6]

GD tried impeaching President Zourabichvili with no success on 18 October
2023, when the Parliament held a vote but failed to collect 100 votes needed
to impeach her.[7]

## Constitutional changes

[edit]

The president will serve for a term of five years and can serve maximum two
terms. The eligibility age for the president increases from 35 to 40. The
change applies to residence requirements as well; a presidential candidate has
to have lived in Georgia for at least 15 years. However, a candidate is no
longer required to have lived in Georgia for the last three years before the
election.[2]

The powers of the president have been limited. The president no longer has
power to conduct international negotiations with foreign countries. The
president will have reduced powers in wartime, as a decision on the use of the
defence forces is to be made solely by the prime minister and it will be
necessary for the president to obtain the prime minister’s consent to declare
martial law or a state of emergency; moreover, the National Defence Council –
a consultative body to the president – is to lose its permanent status and
will only be convened in times of martial law.[8] Although the President
remains the head of state, the commander-in-chief, and representative in
foreign relations, the role no longer ensures “the functioning of state bodies
within the scope of the powers granted by the Constitution, as well as losing
the right “to request particular matters to be discussed at the Government
session and participate in the discussion.”[2]

Under a new law passed this year, the Speaker of Parliament, instead of the
president, nominates and opens the competition for the election of the CEC
Chairman and professional members. Parliament requires a 3/5 majority (90
votes) in the first round to elect candidates. If unsuccessful, a simple
majority (76 votes) can be used in the next round, with two attempts allowed.
If both attempts fail, the president gains the authority to appoint the CEC
chairperson/member. The law also stipulates that CEC members serve a full
five-year term, even if elected with a lower quorum.[9]

### Electoral system

[edit]

As a result of the 2017 constitutional reform, the direct election of the
president by popular vote was abolished and replaced by a system of indirect
election through an 300-member College of Electors, including MPs, local and
regional government representatives. The new electoral system is in place for
this election and onwards. The president will be elected without prior debate
on the Parliament floor through open ballot.[2]

## References

[edit]

  1. **^** https://newsukraine.rbc.ua/news/georgia-may-see-presidential-shift-after-1729984855.html
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "New Constitution Enters into Force". _Civil Georgia_. 2018-12-17. Retrieved 2024-10-23.
  3. **^** Gabritchidze, Nini (23 June 2022). "Georgian president breaks with ruling party in bid to boost EU prospects". _Eurasianet_. Retrieved 2023-07-30.
  4. **^** "Georgian government to file lawsuit against president for allegedly violating constitution". _JamNews_. 15 March 2022. Retrieved 2023-07-30.
  5. **^** "Georgian president to go on veto streak". _Eurasianet_. 24 February 2023. Retrieved 2023-07-30.
  6. **^** Rios, Michael. "Georgian president vetoes 'foreign agents' bill after widespread opposition". _CNN_.
  7. **^** "Georgian parliament fails to impeach President Zourabichvili". _Interfax_. 18 October 2023. Retrieved 2023-10-18.
  8. **^** "PACE website". _assembly.coe.int_. Retrieved 2024-10-23.
  9. **^** "Parliament Passes Amendments to CEC Staffing Rules". _Civil Georgia_. 2024-02-20. Retrieved 2024-08-21.

  * v
  * t
  * e

![Georgia
\(country\)](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/0/0f/Flag_of_Georgia.svg/23px-
Flag_of_Georgia.svg.png) Elections and referendums in Georgia  
---  
Presidential elections|

  * 1991
  * 1992
  * 1995
  * 2000
  * 2004
  * 2008
  * 2013
  * 2018

  
Parliamentary elections|

  * 1919
  * 1938
  * 1947
  * 1951
  * 1955
  * 1959
  * 1963
  * 1967
  * 1971
  * 1975
  * 1980
  * 1985
  * 1990
  * 1992
  * 1995
  * 1999
  * 2003
  * 2004
  * 2008
  * 2012
  * 2016
  * 2020
  * 2024

  
Local elections|

  * 1919
  * 1991
  * 1998
  * 2002
  * 2006
  * 2010
  * 2014
  * 2017
  * 2021
  * _2025_

  
Referendums|

  * 1991
  * 2003
  * 2008

  
  
  * See also: Election Administration
  * Elections and referendums in Abkhazia
  * Adjara
  * South Ossetia

  
  
![](https://login.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1)

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=2024_Georgian_presidential_election&oldid=1255480319"

Categories:

  * 2024 in Georgia (country)
  * 2024 elections in Asia
  * 2024 elections in Europe
  * Presidential elections in Georgia (country)

Hidden categories:

  * Articles with short description
  * Short description with empty Wikidata description

  * This page was last edited on 5 November 2024, at 04:26 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Code of Conduct
  * Developers
  * Statistics
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  * ![Wikimedia Foundation](/static/images/footer/wikimedia-button.svg)
  * ![Powered by MediaWiki](/w/resources/assets/poweredby_mediawiki.svg)

  *[v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[e]: Edit this template

