Jump to content

Main menu

Main menu

move to sidebar hide

Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * About Wikipedia
  * Contact us

Contribute

  * Help
  * Learn to edit
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Upload file

![](/static/images/icons/wikipedia.png)
![Wikipedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-wordmark-en.svg) ![The
Free Encyclopedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-tagline-en.svg)

Search

Search

Appearance

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Personal tools

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Pages for logged out editors learn more

  * Contributions
  * Talk

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * (Top)

  * 1 Background

Toggle Background subsection

    * 1.1 Ultra Low Emission Zone

  * 2 Electoral system

  * 3 Campaign

  * 4 Candidates

Toggle Candidates subsection

    * 4.1 Labour Party

    * 4.2 Conservative Party

      * 4.2.1 Nominated

      * 4.2.2 Shortlisted

      * 4.2.3 Applied but not shortlisted

      * 4.2.4 Withdrew

      * 4.2.5 Declined

    * 4.3 Green Party

      * 4.3.1 Nominated

      * 4.3.2 Applied for nomination

      * 4.3.3 Declined

      * 4.3.4 Results

    * 4.4 Liberal Democrats

    * 4.5 Reform UK

    * 4.6 Other candidates

    * 4.7 Not nominated

      * 4.7.1 Declared but not nominated

      * 4.7.2 Withdrew

      * 4.7.3 Potential

  * 5 Opinion polls

Toggle Opinion polls subsection

    * 5.1 Declared candidates

    * 5.2 Including candidates who did not stand

  * 6 Results

  * 7 Notes

  * 8 References

Toggle the table of contents

# 2024 London mayoral election

4 languages

  * Español
  * Français
  * Русский
  * Suomi

Edit links

  * Article
  * Talk

English

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

General

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Cite this page
  * Get shortened URL
  * Download QR code

Print/export

  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

In other projects

  * Wikidata item

Appearance

move to sidebar hide

**Checked**

![Page protected with pending
changes](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/b/b7/Pending-protection-
shackle.svg/20px-Pending-protection-shackle.svg.png)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

## Page version status

This is an accepted version of this page

This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on _20 October 2024_.

Voting for the Greater London Authority's head

2024 London mayoral election | <- 2021 | **2 May 2024 (2024-05-02)** | _2028_ ->  
---|---|---  
Registered| 6,162,428[1]  
Turnout| 40.5%
![Decrease](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/ed/Decrease2.svg/11px-
Decrease2.svg.png) 1.7pp[1]  
|  | ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/32/Sadiq_Khan_London_2020_%28cropped%29.jpg/120px-Sadiq_Khan_London_2020_%28cropped%29.jpg) | ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/38/Susan_Hall_2023_%28closer_crop%29.png/120px-Susan_Hall_2023_%28closer_crop%29.png)  
---|---|---  
Candidate  | **Sadiq Khan** | Susan Hall  
Party  | Labour | Conservative  
Popular vote  | **1,088,225** | 812,397   
Percentage  | **43.8%**  
![Increase](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/b/b0/Increase2.svg/11px-Increase2.svg.png) 3.8pp | 32.7%  
![Decrease](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/ed/Decrease2.svg/11px-
Decrease2.svg.png)2.6pp  
  
* * *  
  
| ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/15/Rob_Blackie_portrait_%28cropped%29.jpg/120px-Rob_Blackie_portrait_%28cropped%29.jpg) | ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/a1/Zo%C3%AB_Garbett_at_Hackney_Cycling_Event_%28shifted_crop%29.png/120px-Zo%C3%AB_Garbett_at_Hackney_Cycling_Event_%28shifted_crop%29.png)  
Candidate  | Rob Blackie  | Zoë Garbett  
Party  | Liberal Democrats | Green  
Popular vote  | 145,184  | 145,114   
Percentage  | 5.8%  
![Increase](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/b/b0/Increase2.svg/11px-Increase2.svg.png)1.4pp | 5.8%  
![Decrease](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/ed/Decrease2.svg/11px-
Decrease2.svg.png)2.0pp  
  
* * *

![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/9/93/London-2024-mayor.svg/300px-
London-2024-mayor.svg.png)Results by London Assembly constituencies  
  
* * *

| **Mayor before election**  
Sadiq Khan  
Labour | **ElectedMayor**   
Sadiq Khan  
Labour  
---|---  
  
The **2024 London mayoral election** was held on 2 May 2024 to elect the next
mayor of London. It took place simultaneously with elections to the London
Assembly, some local council by-elections in London and regular local
elections elsewhere in England and Wales. Following the Elections Act 2022,
voting in this election took place under the first-past-the-post system for
the first time, replacing the supplementary vote system. The result of the
election was announced on 4 May 2024.[2][3]

Sadiq Khan of the Labour Party, who has served as the mayor of London since
2016, was re-elected as mayor and became the first person to be elected to the
role for three terms.[3] The Conservative Party stood former London Assembly
Conservative leader Susan Hall as its candidate, the Green Party nominated
Hackney borough councillor Zoë Garbett, the Liberal Democrats nominated Rob
Blackie, and Reform UK nominated Howard Cox. There were eight other
candidates.

## Background

[edit]

The mayor of London has responsibilities covering policing, transport,
housing, planning, economic development, arts, culture and the environment.
They control a budget of around £18 billion per year.[4] Mayors are typically
elected for a period of four years, with no limit to the number of terms
served.[5] Under the Greater London Authority Act 1999, mayoral elections are
held on the first Thursday in May in the fourth calendar year following the
previous election, unless varied by an order by the Secretary of State. On 13
March 2020, the government announced the election would be postponed until
2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.[6] The change in election date has been
ignored when setting the date of the following election. Consequently, this
election was held only three years after the 2021 London mayoral election that
saw the Labour mayor Sadiq Khan re-elected.[7]

In the 2022 London local elections, Labour gained control of Barnet,
Wandsworth and Westminster councils from the Conservatives, but lost Croydon
to no overall control, Harrow to the Conservatives and Tower Hamlets to
Aspire, a local political party. Labour saw a small net gain in seats of 28 to
1,156 while the Conservatives lost 104 seats, winning 404 across Greater
London. The Liberal Democrats and Greens both made gains, winning 180 and 18
seats respectively.[8]

Khan froze London Underground fares from 2016 to 2020 and introduced a
violence reduction unit into the Metropolitan Police.[9] In August 2023, he
announced a £135m programme to provide free school meals for all primary
school children in London not covered by the UK government.[10]

### Ultra Low Emission Zone

[edit]

Khan introduced an Ultra Low Emission Zone (ULEZ) in April 2019. The scheme
had been initially planned by Boris Johnson when he was mayor. The scheme
means that vehicles that fail to meet emissions standards need to pay a £12.50
charge each day they drive within the zone, with money raised from charges
invested to improve transport and air quality. The zone was expanded in
October 2021 to cover the area between the North Circular Road and the South
Circular Road. Khan announced plans to further expand the ULEZ to cover the
whole of Greater London in August 2023.[11] The proposal was voted through by
the London Assembly with support from Labour, Liberal Democrat and Green
members and opposition from the Conservatives.[12] The expansion was
unsuccessfully legally challenged by four London borough councils and Surrey
County Council.[13] Khan had expressed a desire to replace the ULEZ in the
future with a more comprehensive road pricing scheme. He later said that no
such scheme would be introduced during his mayoralty.[11][14] In July 2023,
Labour failed to win the Uxbridge and South Ruislip by-election by a narrow
margin, which was credited to local opposition to expansion of the ULEZ.[15]
Khan later extended financial support available to scrap non-compliant
vehicles to all London residents, rather than the previous plan to apply a
means test, funded from reserves.[16]

## Electoral system

[edit]

Nominations closed on 27 March.[17]

Following the Elections Act 2022, the 2024 election used the first-past-the-
post voting system.[18] Prior elections had employed the supplementary vote
system. The Greater London Authority considered changing to counting votes by
hand instead of electronically to save money.[19]

![A primary school in the borough of Lewisham being used as a polling station
on 2nd May 2024. It is an old Victorian building and has two signs reading
"POLLING STATION" in capital
letters.](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/36/Polling_station_London_Mayoral_Elections_2024.jpg/220px-
Polling_station_London_Mayoral_Elections_2024.jpg)A primary school in the
borough of Lewisham being used as a polling station on 2nd May 2024.

All registered electors (including British, Commonwealth, Irish, and certain
European Union citizens) living in London aged 18 or over were entitled to
vote in the mayoral election.[20][21]

## Campaign

[edit]

The incumbent mayor Sadiq Khan announced in January 2022 that he would seek
election to a third term as mayor of London. There had been speculation as to
whether he would instead seek election to the House of Commons in hope of
becoming leader of the Labour Party.[22][23] The Labour Party officially
reselected Khan as its candidate in December 2022 following a vote of party
members and affiliated trade unions.[24][25] Khan pledged to maintain the 2030
target for Greater London Authority operations to reach net zero emissions,
including decarbonising all buses and establishing a fund to put solar panels
on school roofs as part of a wider climate plan.[26][27][28] He said he would
establish a new publicly-owned company to take over London buses with support
from a potential future Labour government.[29] He matched Hall's promise to
extend Night Tube services to four more lines.[30] Khan promised to increase
police budgets by £88 million raised "mainly from council tax" and sought more
central government funding for policing.[31] He said he would hire 1,300 more
police officers and establish a free legal advice service for victims of
sexual offences.[32][33] He promised to have built 40,000 new council houses
between 2018 and 2030.[34] Khan pledged to end rough sleeping in London by
2030 by investing £10 million to extend a network of hubs "designed to help an
extra 1,700 rough sleepers every year with rapid reassessment and
rehousing".[35][36][37] He said he would not increase the minimum standards
for the ULEZ, or seek further expansion.[38] He promised not to introduce road
pricing, which a Conservative election leaflet, designed to look like a
penalty notice, accused him of doing. Labour reported the leaflets to the
Crown Prosecution Service to assess their legality.[39] Khan asked supporters
of the Green Party and the Liberal Democrats to vote for him to avoid the
Conservatives winning after making changes to voting ID laws and the electoral
system.[40] Khan was endorsed by Siobhan Benita, who was temporarily the
Liberal Democrat mayoral candidate in 2020 before withdrawing.[41][42] He was
also endorsed by the actor Mark Hamill.[43]

In July 2023, the Conservatives selected Susan Hall, a member of the London
Assembly who led the Conservative group there from 2019 to 2023, as their
candidate.[44] Hall is considered to be on the right wing of the Conservative
Party and had enthusiastically supported Liz Truss as prime minister and
Donald Trump as president of the United States.[45] In September 2023, Hall
was reported to have liked a tweet that praised Enoch Powell (who gained fame
for his Rivers of Blood speech) and liked tweets that described London's mayor
Sadiq Khan as "our nipple height mayor of Londonistan" and a "traitor
rat".[46][47] When asked about the tweets, a spokesman for Hall's campaign
said "Susan engages with many people on Twitter without endorsing their
views".[47] She later disavowed Powell.[48] Several people in the Conservative
Party said they should make the election a "referendum" on expansion of the
ULEZ.[49] Hall said she would reverse expansion of the ULEZ immediately if
elected.[50] She said she would remove 20 mph speed limits on main roads. Hall
listed policing and housing as her other priorities.[50] She pledged to extend
Night Tube services to four more lines.[30] Hall said she would "ban officers
overtly supporting LGBT campaigns by wearing rainbow flag badges, or engaging
in anti-racism gestures".[46] She said she would increase police budgets by
£200 million by cutting City Hall staff and Transport for London staff
benefits, including pension spending.[51] She said she would hire 1,500 more
police officers and establish two new police bases in every borough.[52][53]
Hall promised to introduce a women's commissioner, increase British Transport
Police presence and make it easier to report harassment to Transport for
London staff.[54] She said she would invest in knife detection equipment for
police officers and schools.[51] She supported "more family homes, even if
they are high-density, low-rise, as long as they are beautiful homes".[48] She
promised to extend Khan's policy of free school meals for all primary school
students for at least one more year.[10] She said that tourists visiting from
abroad should receive a value-added tax refund on purchases made in
London.[55] Hall was endorsed by an editorial in _The Sunday Telegraph_.[56]

In February 2023 the Green Party selected Zoë Garbett, a councillor on Hackney
London Borough Council who works on health inequalities for the NHS, to be
their mayoral candidate.[57] Garbett also ran in the 2023 Hackney mayoral by-
election, where she came second with 24.5% of the vote.[58] She said that if
elected mayor of London, she would introduce free bus transport for people
under the age of 22 and "free morning travel for older people", de-prioritise
policing of cannabis and improve protection for renters.[57][59][60] She
proposed a strategy for London to reach zero murders by 2034, in part by
hiring youth workers.[53] She said she supported expansion of the ULEZ to
cover all of Greater London, but wanted greater financial support for owners
of non-compliant cars.[57] She said that she wanted to replace the ULEZ and
congestion charge with road pricing based on "distances driven, vehicle
emissions, time of day and location", with potential to account for the number
of passengers in the future.[38] Garbett said that she wanted the Silvertown
Tunnel to be closed to cars.[61] She advocated a "London living wage" of £15
an hour.[59] In January 2024 she proposed a two-year rent freeze and a rent
commission that would set target rents.[62] She said she would buy more homes
from the general market to be let out as council housing.[63]

The Liberal Democrats selected Rob Blackie in August 2023. Blackie said he
would provide legal support to undocumented immigrants who had lived in London
for several years to seek citizenship and maintain Khan's policy of free
school meals for at least one more year.[64] He promised to seek devolution of
work permits in the form of a "London passport" to attract foreign
workers.[65] He said that reducing crime and prosecuting more sexual offenders
were priorities for him, and that he would deprioritise the policing of drug
possession and significantly reduce the use of stop and search powers.[64][65]
He proposed a new "Sexual Offences Unit" of the Metropolitan Police with a
target of returning the proportion of sexual offenders being caught from 9%
back to 18%, the level it was in 2016.[42] He proposed a "voluntary tourist
tax" levied on hotel bills to raise more funds for policing.[66] Blackie
promised to introduce grants to pay for the installation of solar panels and
trialling both allowing all buses to be hailed from any location after 10pm
and free cycle hire on Sundays.[42] He said he wanted ULEZ implementation to
be "fairer", giving an example of some night shift workers being charged to
both go to and leave work.[55] Blackie said that Khan's policy of freezing
London Underground fares was "phoney", as it did not apply to travelcard
tickets or caps linked to travelcard prices. He promised to cancel the
Underground fare freeze and suspension of peak prices on Fridays in order to
increase police budgets by £117 million.[31] He said that Khan and Hall would
be equally bad mayors.[61]

Reform UK announced the campaigner Howard Cox as their candidate in May 2023.
Cox had campaigned against increases in hydrocarbon oil duty, a tax on fossil
fuels used by most road motor vehicles.[67] Reform said that Cox would abolish
the ULEZ entirely, end low traffic neighbourhood schemes and reduce the use of
20 mph speed limits.[67] He said he also wanted to "triple" both the number of
police officers on the street and the amount of social housing being
built.[68] He said he recognised climate change, but did not believe it was
caused by human activity and asserted that it is not a crisis. Cox said he had
previously always voted Conservative. The party leader, Richard Tice, said the
Conservatives should stand down and endorse Reform UK.[69]

During the campaign, two televised debates were held: ITV held the first in
mid-April, and the BBC held the second in late April. Both debates were
attended by Khan, Hall, Garbett and Blackie.[70][71]

The _Evening Standard_ newspaper endorsed Khan, but noted that he "must
rectify the failings of the first and second [terms] ... delivering on his
promises on crime, housing and the cost of living"[72]

## Candidates

[edit]

### Labour Party

[edit]

![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/41/Mayor_of_London_06_June_2019_Trafalgar_Square_%28cropped%29.jpg/170px-
Mayor_of_London_06_June_2019_Trafalgar_Square_%28cropped%29.jpg)Sadiq Khan in
2019

The incumbent mayor Sadiq Khan announced in January 2022 that he would run for
re-election. He became Labour's candidate after party members and affiliates
voted to automatically reselect him in December 2022.[73][74] 96% of local
parties and party affilitates voted to re-select him without a contest, with
some constituency Labour Parties, including Leyton and Wanstead and Tottenham,
voting to open selection to more candidates.[75] Khan had worked as a
solicitor before being elected the Labour MP for Tooting in the 2005 general
election. He held junior ministerial positions in Gordon Brown's government
including spending a year as transport minister. From 2010 to 2015 he served
as shadow justice secretary in Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet. He was first
elected mayor of London in 2016, defeating the Conservative candidate Zac
Goldsmith. He was re-elected in the delayed 2021 London mayoral election, that
time beating the Conservative candidate Shaun Bailey.

The shadow foreign secretary David Lammy and the former speaker of the House
of Commons John Bercow had been suggested as possible alternative candidates
for the party.[76][77]

### Conservative Party

[edit]

![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/b/b8/Susan_Hall_2018_%28cropped%29.jpg/170px-
Susan_Hall_2018_%28cropped%29.jpg)Susan Hall in 2018

In May 2023, the Conservatives set a timetable to announce a mayoral candidate
on 18 July.[78][79] Applications opened on 9 May and closed on 24 May, after
which a longlist was produced. A committee was due to produce a shortlist of
up to three candidates on 4 June, with local members voting to select a
candidate from 4 July to 18 July.[80] It was reported that the Conservatives
were seeking to find a celebrity or high-profile businessperson to run as
their candidate, such as Karren Brady or Robert Rinder, but the party's former
mayoral nominee Steven Norris said it was difficult to convince people to
"potentially ruin their reputation, for half the city to hate them".[81]

Several Conservative members declared their candidacies, including members of
the London Assembly Andrew Boff, Susan Hall and Nick Rogers; the Minister for
London Paul Scully MP; the Member of the Senedd Natasha Asghar; the former
councillor Duwayne Brooks; the former special advisers Samuel Kasumu and
Daniel Korski; and the businesspeople Natalie Campbell and Alex Challoner.
Boff had sought the Conservative nomination in five previous mayoral
elections, while Brooks sought the Liberal Democrat nomination in 2012 and
2016 and the Conservative nomination in 2021.[82] Kasumu had worked as an
adviser to Boris Johnson, but resigned in 2021, saying he thought that the
Conservative Party were trying to "pick a fight on the culture war and to
exploit division".[83]

On the question of expansion of the Ultra Low Emission Zone to cover all of
Greater London, Boff, Campbell, Rogers and Scully all said they would
unilaterally reverse it if elected while Kasumu said he would grant
referendums to affected boroughs to decide whether to be part of
it.[78][84][82] On housing, Kasumu said he wanted to "make boroughs more
accountable for house building" while Rogers promised to develop policy aimed
at renters.[78][85] Scully said he would find new sites for housing,
concentrating height in central London.[84] Challoner said he would build five
new neighbourhoods with ten thousand homes each.[86] On policing and crime,
Brooks said he would abolish the Directorate of Professional Standards of the
Metropolitan Police, with investigations of police to be instead conducted by
a new body of former police officers and lawyers.[82] Challoner said he would
establish a new police unit for burglary and car-related crimes.[86] Campbell
said she wanted to be more of a chief executive officer for London than a
mayor.[87]

Kasumu was endorsed by Steve Baker, Grant Shapps, Priti Patel and Nadine
Dorries.[88][89] Scully was endorsed by Rogers, who withdrew from the election
on 19 May.[90]

On 11 June, it was announced that Hall, Korski and the lawyer Mozammel Hossain
had been chosen as the party's shortlist.[91] Scully had been expected to be
included, and Hossain's candidacy had not previously been public.[92][93]

Hall was the only candidate to have held elected office, as a former council
leader and member of the London Assembly.[94] She said she would "get the
basics right" by focusing on "policing, transport and housing" instead of
"fancy ideas". On transport, she opposed expansion of the Ultra Low Emission
Zone and said she would remove Low Traffic Neighbourhoods wherever she had the
authority to.[95][96] She opposes road pricing. She expressed concern that
some striking London Underground staff "are earning far more than average" and
pledged to review their pay and benefits.[96] On crime, she said she would
introduce a new unit of the Metropolitan police dedicated to burglary, theft,
mugging and fences.[97] On housing, she advocated high-density "green,
community-oriented places" but opposed any construction on the green belt. She
voted for the UK to leave the European Union in the 2016 referendum and
supported the leadership campaign of Liz Truss.[96]

Hossain is a criminal barrister. He said he would appeal more than the other
candidates to ethnic minority voters.[98] He said he would lobby the
government for deregulation to "attract big business".[99] He supported more
use of stop and search said he would "crack down" on drill music.[100][101] He
voted for the UK to remain in the European Union in the 2016 referendum.[99]
Hossain's campaign manager, Ben Mallett, and another member of his team, Malin
Bogue, both appeared in a short video clip taken at a Christmas party on 14
December 2020 at Conservative Campaign Headquarters, made available by the
_Daily Mirror_ in June 2023. His supporter Nick Candy was also at the event,
which was held while London was in Tier 2 COVID-19 restrictions, one of the
events collectively known as Partygate.[102] The clip shows people ignoring
social distancing, including Bogue dancing with someone.[103] The invitation
for the event, sent out on behalf of Mallet, described it with the words
"Jingle and Mingle".[104] Hossain was also supported by Iain Duncan
Smith.[101]

According to _The Telegraph_ , Korski was the candidate preferred by the
Conservative Party's leadership.[96] Instead of ULEZ expansion, Korski said he
wanted to plant trees, electrify buses and referred to "large ventilators on
billboards that suck the pollution out of the air" in Peru as a better
solution.[105] He said he would build more housing over train stations and
railway tracks.[106] He also said he wanted to create a tourist tax to fund a
new "minor crimes constabulary" among other police projects.[106] He voted for
the UK to remain in the European Union in the 2016 referendum and supported
Tom Tugendhat's Conservative leadership campaign.[99][107] Korski was endorsed
by George Freeman and Michael Gove and claimed endorsements from Alicia
Kearns, Andrew Mitchell, Joanna Shields and Tugendhat.[108][109][93]

During a hustings event, all of the candidates said they would cancel
expansion of the ULEZ, with Korski supporting a road pricing system instead.
All the candidates said they would invest more in community policing.[94]

In June 2023, the TV producer Daisy Goodwin said that Korski had groped her
during a meeting in Downing Street a decade earlier. She had described the
event some years earlier but without naming Korski.[110] Korski denied the
allegation.[111] On 28 June, he withdrew his candidacy.[112] He said that he
had mentioned the existence of the "story" to the party during the selection
process.[113] Some argued that the contest should be re-started after Korski
pulled out. Broadcaster and former Conservative Party Parliamentary candidate
Iain Dale, who said he himself was approached on three separate occasions to
seek the Conservative mayoral nomination, was critical of the decision not to
do so.[114]

Susan Hall was announced as the candidate on 19 July 2023, winning 57% of the
vote against Hossain.[115][44]

Candidate  | Votes  | Of total   
---|---|---  
Susan Hall |  | 57%   
Mozammel Hossain  |  | 43%   
  
#### Nominated

[edit]

  * Susan Hall, member of the London Assembly since 2017[82]

#### Shortlisted

[edit]

  * Mozammel Hossain, KC, criminal barrister[116]
  * Daniel Korski, businessman and former special adviser to then-prime minister David Cameron _(withdrew due to groping allegations)_[112]

#### Applied but not shortlisted

[edit]

  * Natasha Asghar, member of the Senedd (Welsh Parliament)[117]
  * Andrew Boff, chair of the London Assembly and candidate for mayor in 2000, 2004, 2008, 2016 and 2021[118]
  * Duwayne Brooks, former Lewisham borough councillor[119]
  * Natalie Campbell, businessperson[87]
  * Alex Challoner, businessperson[86]
  * Samuel Kasumu, Welwyn Hatfield borough councillor and former special adviser to then-prime minister Boris Johnson[120]
  * Paul Scully, minister for London and MP for Sutton and Cheam[84]

#### Withdrew

[edit]

  * Nick Rogers, member of the London Assembly since 2021 (endorsed Scully)[121]

#### Declined

[edit]

  * Emma Best, member of the London Assembly since 2021 (ran for re-election)[78]
  * Robert Rinder, barrister and television personality[78]

### Green Party

[edit]

![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/c6/Zo%C3%AB_Garbett_at_Hackney_Cycling_Event_%28cropped%29.png/220px-
Zo%C3%AB_Garbett_at_Hackney_Cycling_Event_%28cropped%29.png)Zoë Garbett in
2022

The Green Party nominated Zoë Garbett as its candidate. Garbett was elected as
councillor for Dalston ward on Hackney London Borough Council in 2022,
simultaneously coming second in the election for mayor of Hackney with 17.0%
of the vote.[122] At the time of her selection she worked for the NHS on
health inequalities.[123][124] She had been endorsed by the party's only MP
Caroline Lucas and two members of the London Assembly, Siân Berry and Caroline
Russell; Berry had served as the party's mayoral candidate on three former
occasions.[125][126]

Two other candidates, the councillor and former MEP Scott Ainslie and the
councillor Benali Hamdache, contested the nomination. Ainslie had campaigned
on "retrofitting London's homes, delivering free school meals for all primary
school children, and ensuring London's pension funds are divested from fossil
fuels" while Hamdache had advocated "a tourist tax and a workplace parking
levy in London" and replacing the London Assembly with a new London
Parliament.[127]

#### Nominated

[edit]

  * Zoë Garbett, Hackney borough councillor and nominee for mayor of Hackney in 2022 and 2023[128]

#### Applied for nomination

[edit]

  * Scott Ainslie, Lambeth borough councillor and former MEP for London[129]
  * Benali Hamdache, Islington borough councillor[125]

#### Declined

[edit]

  * Siân Berry, member of the London Assembly since 2016, former leader of the Green Party, and nominee for mayor in 2008, 2016, and 2021 (endorsed Garbett)[126]

#### Results

[edit]

Green Party London mayoral candidate selection[128]  
---  
Candidate  | Votes  | Of total   
Zoë Garbett |  | 51.2%   
Benali Hamdache  |  | 26.5%   
Scott Ainslie |  | 20.5%   
Reopen nominations |  | 1.8%   
  
### Liberal Democrats

[edit]

![Portrait of Rob
Blackie](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/5a/Rob_Blackie_portrait.jpg/170px-
Rob_Blackie_portrait.jpg)Rob Blackie was selected as the Liberal Democrat
candidate

The Liberal Democrats announced their candidate, Rob Blackie on 11 August
2023. He was chosen by a vote of party members from a shortlist of two,
Blackie and Chris French.[130] Blackie works in digital marketing and worked
on the Best for Britain anti-Brexit campaign. He said he would re-prioritise
the Met Police towards sexual offences and away from "low-level drug
offences". He also promised cleaner rivers, more solar panels and better
transport links for outer London.[131] French, who works as a community
advocate and previously served as a special constable, had said he would
reform policing and reduce health inequalities.[132]

Blackie was being treated for cancer in 2023–4. He had his left kidney removed
in February 2023 and announced the successful completion of his cancer
treatment in March 2024.[133]

### Reform UK

[edit]

Reform UK selected Howard Cox, a campaigner against hydrocarbon oil duty
increases, as its candidate.[68]

### Other candidates

[edit]

Party  | Candidate  | Notes/sources   
---|---|---  
| Animal Welfare Party | Femy Amin  | Femy Amin stood for the Animal Welfare Party.[134]  
| Count Binface Party  | Count Binface | Count Binface, a satirical candidate who stood in the 2021 London mayoral election, announced his candidacy in March 2024.[135] The candidate previously came ninth out of twenty candidates in the 2021 London mayoral election with 1.0% of the vote.   
| Independent  | Natalie Campbell | Natalie Campbell, a businessperson who applied for the Conservative candidacy, announced that she would run as an independent. She said she would consider abolishing the Metropolitan Police and replacing them with a new police force. She had opposed the expansion of the ULEZ, but said she would only reverse it if it were cost-effective.[136] She supports the Bakerloo line extension.[137]  
| Social Democratic Party | Amy Gallagher | Amy Gallagher, a nurse who took legal action against the Tavistock and Portman NHS Foundation Trust over alleged discrimination, was announced as the Social Democratic Party's candidate in December 2023.[138] She said she would provide free transport for people under the age of 25 and "push back on woke ideology".[139]  
| Independent  | Tarun Ghulati  | Tarun Ghulati, an Indian-born investment banker, declared his candidature in November 2023, saying he would eliminate the ULEZ, remove the congestion charge for weekends and holidays, and abolish 20 mph speed limit zones and Low Traffic Neighbourhoods. He also said he would focus on affordable housing.[140][141] He promised to re-open police stations in areas with a lot of crime.[142]  
| Independent  | Andreas Michli  | Andreas Michli, a businessperson, said he would run as an independent candidate. He pledged to abolish the ULEZ, low-traffic neighbourhoods, the congestion charge, and the target for net zero emissions.[143][144] He said he wanted police officers to be trained in Brazilian jiu-jitsu to blue belt, and in the law "comparable to a solicitor".[139][143][144] He said that as mayor he would give free gym memberships for London residents.[143] He said he had been "radicalised by lockdown".[144] He unsuccessfully appealed two fixed penalty notices for breaking lockdown rules.[145]  
| London Real Party  | Brian Rose | Brian Rose, a podcaster who promoted misinformation about the COVID-19 pandemic and stood in the 2021 election, said he would seek election again under the banner of his London Real party. He said he would abolish the ULEZ, privatise Transport for London, and seek to deregulate cryptocurrency investment.[146]  
| Britain First | Nick Scanlon  | Nick Scanlon ran for the Britain First party.[134]  
  
### Not nominated

[edit]

#### Declared but not nominated

[edit]

Several people declared they would stand or launched campaigns, but were not
ultimately nominated.

  * Shyam Batra, a finance broker, announced in January 2024 that he would stand as an independent candidate, saying he would abolish the ULEZ, congestion zone, and 20 mph speed limits as well as introducing support "to get everyone on the housing ladder".[138][147] LBC reported that he was prohibited from being a company director and believed aliens were "blending into our communities".[148]
  * Piers Corbyn, a conspiracy theorist who stood for the Let London Live party in 2021, said he would run in the 2024 election.[149]
  * Laurence Fox of the Reclaim Party sought to stand, but failed to complete his nomination papers correctly in time.[150][151]
  * George Galloway, the MP for Rochdale and current leader of the Workers Party of Britain, announced his candidacy in December 2023.[152] Galloway subsequently was elected to Parliament in the 2024 Rochdale by-election. The Workers Party of Britain did not nominate a candidate for the election.
  * Niko Omilana, a YouTuber who stood as an independent candidate in 2021, was unable to stand as his nomination papers were found to be invalid.[153]

#### Withdrew

[edit]

  * Serge Crowbolder, a deliveryman, intended to run as an independent. He said he would lobby the government to facilitate a system to reduce rents, establish an e-democracy platform, look to provide solar panels and heat pumps to every home, and commission a feasibility study into the building of a dam between Essex and Kent.[154] He withdrew his candidacy having been unable to raise funds for a deposit.[155]
  * Rayhan Haque, a campaigner, said he would increase support for cyclists, explore car-free days like those used in Paris, and create an academy to teach London residents about artificial intelligence to "surpass what San Francisco is doing".[156] Haque left the Labour Party in 2019.[152] He withdrew his candidacy in March 2024, saying he could not win and did not want "the progressive vote to be splintered".[157]

#### Potential

[edit]

The former leader of the Labour Party Jeremy Corbyn said he would think about
standing for mayor as an independent when asked at the Edinburgh Festival
Fringe in August 2023.[158] Corbyn is the MP for Islington North and was a
Labour member at the time, but was expelled from the Party after successfully
running as an independent in the 2024 United Kingdom general election.[159]
Corbyn had been included as a named candidate on some polls; polling in
September 2023 by Redfield & Wilson found that Khan led without Corbyn listed,
but that Corbyn's inclusion resulted in a Hall lead.[160]

It had been speculated that the former prime minister Boris Johnson might
stand as an independent candidate. Johnson previously served as mayor of
London from 2008 to 2016.[161]

In August 2023, the former Conservative cabinet minister and 2019 leadership
election candidate, Rory Stewart, declined to rule out contesting the
mayoralty in 2024 upon relocating to Britain, having withdrawn his initial
candidacy ahead of the previous election in 2021.[162]

## Opinion polls

[edit]

### Declared candidates

[edit]

![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/17/Opinion_polling_for_the_2024_London_mayoral_election.svg/700px-
Opinion_polling_for_the_2024_London_mayoral_election.svg.png)

Dates  
conducted  | Pollster  | Client  | Sample size  | Khan | Hall | Garbett  | Blackie | Cox  |  Oth. | Lead   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Lab | Con | Green | Lib Dem | Reform  
|  |  |  |   
2 May 2024  | 2024 mayoral election  | –  | **43.8%** | 32.7%  | 5.8%  | 5.8%  | 3.1%  | 8.7%  | 11.1%   
24–30 Apr 2024  | YouGov | _N/A_ | 1,192  | **47%** | 25%  | 7%  | 6%  | 6%  | 8% Binface on 3%  
Gallagher on 1%  
Amin on 1%  
Scanlon on 1%  
Campbell on 1%  
Michli on 1%  
Rose on 0%  
Ghulati on 0% | 22%   
16–17 Apr 2024  | YouGov | _N/A_ | 1,157  | **46%** | 27%  | 9%  | 8%  | 6%  | 4%  | 19%   
8–17 Apr 2024  | Savanta | Mile End Institute  | 1,034  | **46%** | 33%  | 7%  | 9%  | 2%  | 2%  | 13%   
6–8 Apr 2024  | Redfield & Wilton | N/A  | 1,000  | **43%** | 30%  | 10%  | 8%  | 7%  | 2%  | 13%   
21–26 Mar 2024  | Survation | ITV News  | 1,019  | **44%** | 26%  | 7%  | 7%  | 5%  | 10% Rose on 3%  
Campbell on 3%  
Binface on 1%  
Ghulati on 1%  
Michli on 1%  
Gallagher on 1%  
Batra on 1%  
Other on 0% | 18%   
8–12 Mar 2024  | Savanta | Centre for London  | 1,510  | **51%** | 27%  | 8%  | 10%  | 2%  | 2%  | 24%   
12–19 Feb 2024  | YouGov | Mile End Institute | 1,113  | **49%** | 24%  | 9%  | 8%  | 7%  | 3%  | 25%   
6–10 Nov 2023  | Find Out Now | _Evening Standard_ | 2,730  | **46%** | 25%  | 9%  | 9%  | 6%  | 5%  | 21%   
31 Oct - 8 Nov 2023  | Lord Ashcroft | _N/A_ | 3,418  | **50%** | 23%  | 7%  | 10%  | 5%  | 5%  | 27%   
12–17 Oct 2023  | YouGov/QMUL | _Evening Standard_ | 1,066  | **50%** | 25%  | 11%  | 7%  | 4%  | 3%  | 25%   
9–21 Sep 2023  | JL Partners | _The Sun_ | 1,000  | **40%** | 36%  | 6%  | 6%  | 9%  | 3%  | 4%   
4–6 Sep 2023  | Redfield & Wilton | _The Times_ | 1,100  | **33%** | 32%  | 9%  | 16%  | 4%  | 6%  | 1%   
30 Jun - 5 Jul 2023  | Survation | N/A  | 1,060  | **43%** | 31%[a] | 9%  | 16%[b] | 1%  | 1%  | 12%   
10–12 Jun 2023  | Redfield & Wilton | N/A  | 1,100  | **41%** | 33%[a] | 7%  | 8%[b] | 5%  | 5%  | 8%   
6 May 2021  | 2021 mayoral election[c] | –  | **40%** | 35.3%  | 7.8%  | 4.4%  | –  | 12.5%  | 4.7%   
  
### Including candidates who did not stand

[edit]

These polls included former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn as an independent
candidate.

Dates  
conducted  | Pollster  | Client  | Sample size   
---|---|---|---  
Khan | Hall | Garbett  | Blackie | Cox  | Corbyn | Oth. | Lead   
Lab | Con | Green | Lib Dem | Reform | Ind  
|  |  |  |  |   
6–10 Nov 2023  | Find Out Now | _Evening Standard_ | 2,730  | **39%** | 24%  | 6%  | 8%  | 5%  | 14%  | 4%  | 15%   
31 Oct - 8 Nov 2023  | Lord Ashcroft | _N/A_ | 3,418  | **41%** | 22%  | 6%  | 9%  | 5%  | 14%  | 3%  | 19%   
9–21 Sep 2023  | JL Partners | _The Sun_ | 1,000  | **37%** | 35%  | 6%  | 5%  | 8%  | 6%  | 3%  | 2%   
4–6 Sep 2023  | Redfield & Wilton | _The Times_ | 1,100  | 25%  | **30%** | 6%  | 15%  | 5%  | 15%  | 3%  | 5%   
10–12 Jun 2023  | Redfield & Wilton | N/A  | 1,100  | **32%** | 28%[a] | 9%  | 10%[b] | 8%  | 7%  | 6%  | 4%   
6 May 2021  | 2021 mayoral election[c] | –  | **40%** | 35.3%  | 7.8%  | 4.4%  | –  | –  | 12.5%  | 4.7%   
  
## Results

[edit]

The election was won by Sadiq Khan of the Labour Party, becoming the first
Mayor of London to win a third term of office.[163] Khan increased his share
of the vote by 3.8% compared to 2021. Susan Hall of the Conservative Party
came second; however, the Conservative share of the vote fell by 2.6% compared
to 2021. Rob Blackie of the Liberal Democrats took third place by 70 votes,
with the Greens falling to fourth place for the first time since the 2008
London mayoral election.[163]

The turnout of 40.5% was the lowest since the 2012 London mayoral
election.[164] The number of rejected ballots (11,127) was substantially lower
than the 2021 London mayoral election, in which over 114,000 first preference
ballots were rejected.[165]

2024 London mayoral election[166] Party  | Candidate  | Votes  | Of total (%)  | ± (pp), party  
---|---|---|---|---  
| **Labour** | **Sadiq Khan ** | **1,088,225** | **43.8** | **+3.8**  
| Conservative | Susan Hall | 812,397  | 32.7  | −2.6   
| Liberal Democrats | Rob Blackie  | 145,184  | 5.8  | +1.4   
| Green | Zoë Garbett  | 145,114  | 5.8  | −2.0   
| Reform UK | Howard Cox  | 78,865  | 3.1  | _New_  
| Independent | Natalie Campbell | 47,815  | 1.9  | _New_  
| SDP | Amy Gallagher | 34,449  | 1.4  | +1.1   
| Animal Welfare | Femy Amin  | 29,280  | 1.2  | _New_  
| Independent | Andreas Michli  | 26,121  | 1.1  | _New_  
| Independent | Tarun Ghulati  | 24,702  | 1.0  | _New_  
| Count Binface | Count Binface | 24,260  | 1.0  | 0.0   
| Britain First | Nick Scanlon  | 20,519  | 0.8  | _New_  
| London Real | Brian Rose | 7,501  | 0.3  | −0.9   
Majority  | 276,008  | 11.1  |   
Rejected ballots  | 11,127  | 0.4  |   
Turnout | 2,495,559  | 40.5  | −1.5   
Registered electors | 6,162,428  |  |   
| Labour **hold**  
  
## Notes

[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Generic Conservative Party candidate
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Generic Liberal Democrat candidate
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ First preference vote shares shown

## References

[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Verification and turnout data". _London Elects_. Retrieved 4 May 2024.
  2. **^** Cecil, Nicholas (3 May 2024). "London mayoral election: Why will the result not be announced today?". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 3 May 2024.
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Local election results 2024 live: Sadiq Khan wins London mayor race". BBC News. Retrieved 4 May 2024.
  4. **^** "What do the Mayor of London and the London Assembly do?". _London Elects_. 2024. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  5. **^** "Q&A: London mayoral and London Assembly elections 2012". BBC News. 29 March 2012. Archived from the original on 26 September 2015. Retrieved 26 August 2015.
  6. **^** "Local elections postponed for a year over coronavirus". BBC News. 13 March 2020. Archived from the original on 13 March 2020. Retrieved 13 March 2020.
  7. **^** "Coronavirus Act 2020". _Legislation.gov.uk_. Archived from the original on 13 June 2020. Retrieved 13 May 2020.
  8. **^** @BritainElects (22 May 2018). "Ward-by-ward results for the 2018 local elections in London now available" (Tweet). Retrieved 15 June 2023 - via Twitter.
  9. **^** Boscia, Stefan (20 December 2022). "Sadiq Khan to run for third term as London mayor in 2024 election". _City A.M._ Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Almost 300,000 primary pupils in London to get free school meals". BBC News. 23 August 2023. Retrieved 27 August 2023.
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lydall, Ross (8 March 2022). "ULEZ to expand across all of Greater London". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  12. **^** Lawrence, India (18 November 2022). "Sadiq Khan's plans to massively expand the ULEZ are a step closer". _Time Out London_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  13. **^** Topham, Gwyn (28 July 2023). "London Ulez: court dismisses challenge by five councils over expansion". _The Guardian_. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 19 January 2024.
  14. **^** "Uxbridge by-election: Sadiq Khan: No 'pay-per-mile' road charging 'as long as I am mayor'". _Evening Standard_. 14 September 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
  15. **^** "Uxbridge by-election: Khan defends Ulez after Starmer blames it for poll setback". BBC News. 21 July 2023. Retrieved 5 August 2023.
  16. **^** "London mayor Sadiq Khan 'unwilling' to delay or scale back 'vital' ULEZ as scrappage scheme expanded". Sky News. Retrieved 5 August 2023.
  17. **^** "Elections Act 2022: Section 13", _legislation.gov.uk_ , The National Archives, 2022 c. 37  (s. 13)
  18. **^** "Statutory notices and elections timetable". _London Elects_. Retrieved 10 March 2024.
  19. **^** Hill, Dave (7 January 2022). "Votes for next London Mayor and Assembly elections could be counted manually". _OnLondon_. Retrieved 18 January 2022.
  20. **^** "Local Voting Rights for EU Citizens Living in the UK". _Gov.uk_.
  21. **^** "Registering to vote". _London Elects_.
  22. **^** Mortimer, Josiah (30 November 2021). "Sadiq Khan hints at third run for London mayor in 2024". _MyLondon_. Retrieved 17 January 2022.
  23. **^** Talora, Joe (13 January 2022). "Sadiq Khan plots third mayoral term as he 'doesn't want' Starmer's job". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 18 January 2022.
  24. **^** Chappell, Elliot (20 December 2022). "Sadiq Khan confirmed as Labour Party's mayoral candidate for 2024 election". _LabourList_. Retrieved 21 December 2022.
  25. **^** Stefan, Boscia (20 December 2022). "Sadiq Khan to run for third term as London mayor in 2024 election". _CityAM_. Retrieved 21 December 2022.
  26. **^** Wright, Charles (22 September 2023). "Sadiq Khan to stick to target of net zero London by 2030". _OnLondon_. Retrieved 2 October 2023.
  27. **^** Boffey, Daniel; reporter, Daniel Boffey Chief (12 April 2024). "Tory candidate for London mayor has Trumpian attitude to climate, says Khan". _The Guardian_. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  28. **^** "London mayor elections: Sadiq Khan launches climate 'action plan' for London". BBC News. 12 April 2024. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  29. **^** "London mayor elections: Susan Hall pledges to expand Night Tube". BBC News. 16 April 2024. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  30. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lydall, Ross (16 April 2024). "Tory Susan Hall to expand Night Tube to boost nightlife and get women home safely". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  31. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Vickers, Noah (9 February 2024). "Lib Dem mayoral candidate would scrap 'phoney' TfL fare freeze". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 21 February 2024.
  32. **^** "Labour's Sadiq Khan pledges 1,300 more officers for London". BBC News. 27 March 2024. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  33. **^** Vickers, Noah (17 April 2024). "Mayor pledges new legal advice service for rape and assault survivors". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  34. **^** Vickers, Noah (18 March 2024). "Sadiq Khan pledges 40,000 new London council homes if he wins Mayoral Election". _Harrow Online_. Retrieved 18 March 2024.
  35. **^** "London mayor elections: Sadiq Khan pledges to end rough sleeping". _Yahoo News_. 15 April 2024. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  36. **^** Boffey, Daniel; reporter, Daniel Boffey Chief (14 April 2024). "Sadiq Khan pledges to eliminate rough sleeping in London 'once and for all'". _The Guardian_. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  37. **^** "London mayor elections: Sadiq Khan pledges to end rough sleeping". BBC News. 15 April 2024. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  38. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "London mayor rules out expansion of Ulez if he stays in role after election". _Yahoo News_. 25 March 2024. Retrieved 25 March 2024.
  39. **^** "London mayor election: Labour reports Tory election leaflet to prosecutors". _BBC News_. 16 April 2024. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  40. **^** Clinton, Jane (16 March 2024). "Sadiq Khan fears change to voting system could bring London Tory mayor". _The Guardian_. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 17 March 2024.
  41. **^** Benita, Siobhan (11 April 2024). "I was a Lib Dem candidate for Mayor, but this is why I now back Sadiq Khan". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  42. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Vickers, Noah (16 April 2024). "Lib Dems pledge to clamp down on sexual offences in London manifesto". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  43. **^** "Luke Skywalker backs Sadiq Khan in London mayor race". _POLITICO_. 1 May 2024. Retrieved 2 May 2024.
  44. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Walker, Peter (19 July 2023). "Susan Hall chosen as Conservative candidate for London mayor". _The Guardian_. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 21 July 2023.
  45. **^** Hayward, Freddie (19 July 2023). "Does Susan Hall have any hope against Sadiq Khan?". _New Statesman_. Retrieved 21 July 2023.
  46. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Fisher, Lucy (27 September 2023). "'I am Marmite': Tory mayoral hopeful tries to win over Londoners". _Financial Times_. Retrieved 2 October 2023.
  47. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Spirit, Lara (15 September 2023). "Susan Hall: Tory mayoral candidate liked tweet praising Enoch Powell". _The Times_. ISSN 0140-0460. Retrieved 16 September 2023.
  48. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Tory candidate Susan Hall says 'I'll be first female Labour mayor' in gaffe". _The Independent_. 1 October 2023. Retrieved 2 October 2023.
  49. **^** Hill, Dave (14 March 2023). "London Conservatives think out loud about how to beat Sadiq Khan". _OnLondon_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  50. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Susan Hall selected as Conservative London mayoral candidate". BBC News. 19 July 2023. Retrieved 21 July 2023.
  51. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lydall, Ross (21 February 2024). "Susan Hall: 'I'll boost crime fight by cutting Khan's mayoral staff'". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 21 February 2024.
  52. **^** "London mayor elections: Susan Hall promises 1,500 extra police". BBC News. 10 April 2024. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  53. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The London Debate: Mayoral candidates go head-to-head to win your vote". _Itv.com_.
  54. **^** Lydall, Ross (12 March 2024). "Susan Hall promises women's champion to beat Tube sex harassment". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 17 March 2024.
  55. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Mata, William; Baldwin, Sian; Bulbul, Nuray; Davison, Tamara (1 February 2024). "London mayoral election 2024: Who are the candidates?". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 3 February 2024.
  56. **^** View, Telegraph (7 January 2024). "London can't afford Labour". _The Telegraph_. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 10 January 2024.
  57. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Twomey, James (13 February 2023). "Green Party's candidate for mayor of London reveals drug reform and free transport as priorities". _LondonNewsOnline.co.uk_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  58. **^** "Hackney mayoral by-election: Greens' Zoë Garbett throws her hat into the ring". _Hackney Citizen_. 25 September 2023. Retrieved 2 October 2023.
  59. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Franks, Josephine (16 June 2023). "Who is Zoë Garbett? The NHS worker and Green candidate vying to be London mayor". Sky News. Retrieved 19 June 2023.
  60. **^** "London mayoral elections: People speak of cost-of-living concerns". BBC News. 17 April 2024. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  61. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Vickers, Noah (19 March 2024). "Lib Dem mayoral candidate Rob Blackie takes aim at Sadiq Khan as he launches campaign". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 21 March 2024.
  62. **^** Lydall, Ross (26 January 2024). "London mayoral candidate calls for two-year rent freeze to calm housing market". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 3 February 2024.
  63. **^** Gayne, Daniel (16 April 2024). "London mayoral elections 2024: Sadiq Khan's record on the built environment". _Building Design_. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  64. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Vickers, Noah (6 September 2023). "Lib Dem London mayoral candidate would make Ulez 'better targeted'". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 2 October 2023.
  65. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Donovan, Tim; Jackson, Liv (19 March 2024). "London mayoral elections: Lib Dem candidate says stop and search is 'a low priority'". BBC News. Retrieved 21 March 2024.
  66. **^** "London mayor elections: Lib Dem Rob Blackie pledges to fix the Met". BBC News. 16 April 2024. Retrieved 17 April 2024.
  67. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Riley-Smith, Ben (9 May 2023). "Reform reveals London Mayor candidate is fuel campaigner who wants to scale back 20mph limits". _The Telegraph_. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  68. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Anti-Ulez Reform UK candidate Howard Cox launches London mayoral campaign". ITV News. 10 May 2023.
  69. **^** Vickers, Noah (10 May 2023). "Reform UK's London mayoral candidate vows to scrap Ulez and abolish LTNs". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  70. **^** "The London Debate: Mayoral candidates go head-to-head to win your vote". _ITV London_. 16 April 2024. Retrieved 8 May 2024.
  71. **^** Rufo, Yasmin (25 April 2024). "London mayor elections: Sadiq Khan and Susan Hall clash at BBC debate". BBC News. Retrieved 3 May 2024.
  72. **^** "The Standard View: Why Sadiq Khan is our pick for Mayor of London". _Evening Standard_. 1 May 2024.
  73. **^** Hill, Dave (21 November 2022). "Labour candidate selection 'trigger ballot' for 2024 mayoral race gets underway". _OnLondon_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  74. **^** Hill, Dave (20 December 2022). "Sadiq Khan reselected as Labour candidate for 2024 London Mayor election". _OnLondon_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  75. **^** Wearmouth, Rachel (21 December 2022). "Is Labour getting tired of Sadiq Khan?". _New Statesman_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  76. **^** Mandrake (26 April 2022). "Lammy eyes Khan's City Hall role". _The New European_. Retrieved 16 July 2022.
  77. **^** Hope, Christopher (4 March 2022). "Is London ready for Mayor John Bercow?". _The Telegraph_. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 16 July 2022.
  78. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Frank-Keyes, Jessica (2 May 2023). "Mayoral Elections 2024: Who is in the frame to run against Sadiq Khan?". _City A.M_.
  79. **^** Daly, Patrick (16 May 2023). "Former Cameron adviser joins race to be Tory candidate for London mayor". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 16 May 2023.
  80. **^** Doherty, Caitlin (9 May 2023). "Conservatives Kick Off Search For London Mayor Candidate". _Politics Home_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  81. **^** Hazell, Will (6 May 2023). "Sadiq Khan 'desperately beatable' in London mayoral race". _The Telegraph_. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  82. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Doherty, Caitlin (10 May 2023). "Everyone In The Mix To Be The Conservatives' London Mayoral Candidate". _Politics Home_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  83. **^** Mountney, Dan (16 June 2021). "Hatfield councillor opens up on quitting as PM's ethnic minority adviser". _Welwyn Hatfield Times_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  84. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Daly, Patrick (18 May 2023). "Paul Scully MP announces pitch to be Tory candidate for mayor of London". _The Independent_. Retrieved 18 May 2023.
  85. **^** Twomey, James (6 February 2023). "Potential Tory candidate for 2024 London mayoral election revealed". _South London News_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  86. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Daly, Patrick (22 May 2023). "London mayoral election heats up as Tory candidate announces 'bold' plan". _The Independent_. Retrieved 22 May 2023.
  87. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gibbons, Amy (18 May 2023). "Former royal aide throws hat in the ring to be London mayor". _The Telegraph_. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 22 May 2023.
  88. **^** City A.M. (25 April 2023). "Tory heavyweights endorse former Boris Johnson adviser to run for London mayor". _City A.M_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  89. **^** Comfi, Amy (15 May 2023). "Two ex-Ministers of the Cabinet endorse Tory's campaign for London mayor". _Central Recorder_. Retrieved 15 May 2023.
  90. **^** Rusk, Lynn (19 May 2023). "London mayor: Nick Rogers pulls out of Tory candidate race". _LondonWorld_. Retrieved 19 May 2023.
  91. **^** Lydall, Ross (11 June 2023). "Shock as 'frontrunner' MP fails to make Tory mayoral candidate shortlist". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 11 June 2023.
  92. **^** Lynch, Ben. "London mayor election: Conservative 'circus' as shortlist to take on Sadiq Khan announced".
  93. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Ferguson, Donna (11 June 2023). "Minister for London Paul Scully fails to make Tory shortlist to run for city mayor". _The Guardian_. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 19 June 2023.
  94. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Conservative London mayoral hopefuls battle it out". BBC News. 18 June 2023. Retrieved 19 June 2023.
  95. **^** "Who is Susan Hall? The hair salon owner and London mayor hopeful who says Sadiq Khan 'fears her most'". Sky News. Retrieved 19 June 2023.
  96. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Hazell, Will (17 June 2023). "Only I can beat Sadiq Khan, says no-nonsense Tory candidate for London Mayor Susan Hall". _The Telegraph_. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 19 June 2023.
  97. **^** Dixon, Hayley (9 May 2023). "Met Police needs a dedicated burglary unit, says Tory London mayoral candidate". _The Telegraph_. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  98. **^** Tominey, Camilla (13 June 2023). "Sadiq Khan takes ethnic minority vote for granted, says Tory rival". _The Telegraph_. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 19 June 2023.
  99. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Hazell, Will (17 June 2023). "'Wild card' Tory London mayor candidate is a 'passionate Remainer'". _The Telegraph_. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 19 June 2023.
  100. **^** Quadri, Sami (18 June 2023). "Tory Mayoral candidate reveals he is a 'passionate Remainer'". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 19 June 2023.
  101. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lydall, Ross (14 June 2023). "Thatcherite Tory mayoral contender 'Mysterious Moz' reveals key policies". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 19 June 2023.
  102. **^** Griffiths, Robbie (19 June 2023). "Mayoral candidate's backers, including Nick Candy, get party hangover". _Evening Standard_.
  103. **^** Minelle, Bethany (18 June 2023). "Partygate: Conservative Party staff filmed drinking and dancing during COVID lockdown". Sky News. Retrieved 20 October 2024.
  104. **^** Kemp, Phil; Francis, Sam (19 June 2023). "Tory aides invited to 'Jingle and Mingle' Covid party". BBC News.
  105. **^** Lydall, Ross (15 June 2023). "Who is Dan Korski? Tory mayoral contender reveals key policies to Evening Standard". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 20 June 2023.
  106. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Diver, Tony (16 May 2023). "Former adviser to PM launches London mayor bid, proposing tourist tax to fund more police". _The Telegraph_. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 16 May 2023.
  107. **^** "Who is Daniel Korski? The former war reporter seeking to become London mayor". Sky News. Retrieved 20 June 2023.
  108. **^** Lydall, Ross (16 May 2023). "Daniel Korski enters London Tory mayoral race with plans to scrap Ulez expansion". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 16 May 2023.
  109. **^** Ben-David, Daniel; Rose, David (18 May 2023). "Jewish refugees' son in race to become Tory London mayor candidate". _The Jewish Chronicle_. Retrieved 18 May 2023.
  110. **^** Goodwin, Daisy (28 June 2023). "Daisy Goodwin: Why I'm naming the man who groped me at No 10". _The Times_. Retrieved 28 June 2023.
  111. **^** Rufo, Yasmin (26 June 2023). "Daniel Korski: Daisy Goodwin accuses mayoral hopeful of groping". BBC News.
  112. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Morton, Becky (28 June 2023). "Daniel Korski pulls out of mayor race after groping claim". BBC News.
  113. **^** Diver, Tony (27 June 2023). "Tories won't investigate London mayoral hopeful accused of groping". _The Telegraph_. Retrieved 29 June 2023.
  114. **^** Dale, Iain (19 July 2023). "The Tory mayoral selection process is a humiliation". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 6 August 2023.
  115. **^** Lydall, Ross (19 July 2023). "Susan Hall wins Tory race to face-off against Sadiq Khan for London mayoralty". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 20 July 2023.
  116. **^** Lydall, Ross (14 June 2023). "Mozammel Hossain: Tory mayoral contender breaks cover to reveal key policies". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 18 June 2023.
  117. **^** Barnes, Dan (22 May 2023). "Prominent Welsh Tory announces bid to become the Mayor of London". _South Wales Argus_. Retrieved 22 May 2023.
  118. **^** Hill, Dave (17 January 2023). "London Assembly's Andrew Boff will seek to be Conservative challenger to Sadiq Khan". _On London_.
  119. **^** Rose, Steve (1 May 2023). "'I know what injustice is': Duwayne Brooks on losing Stephen Lawrence – and fighting to be London's Tory mayor". _The Guardian_.
  120. **^** Riding, James (17 January 2022). "Q+A: Samuel Kasumu, the London mayoral candidate going all in on housing". _React News_. Retrieved 8 February 2023.
  121. **^** Vickers, Noah (19 May 2023). "'Not my time' – Tory mayoral hopeful leaves race and endorses Paul Scully". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 20 May 2023.
  122. **^** Vickers, Noah (10 February 2023). "Green Party reveals its 2024 London mayoral candidate". _uk.movies.yahoo.com_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  123. **^** Twomey, James (10 February 2023). "Mayor of London's first election challenger revealed". _South London News_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  124. **^** Vickers, Noah (10 February 2023). "Green Party reveal their 2024 London mayoral candidate". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  125. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Jarvis, Chris (21 December 2022). "Exclusive: Benali Hamdache is standing to be the Green Party's next London Mayoral candidate". _Bright Green_. Retrieved 29 December 2022.
  126. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Talora, Joe (9 November 2022). "'We need action': Dalston councillor announces bid to be Green Party's next candidate for London mayor". _Hackney Citizen_. Retrieved 21 November 2022.
  127. **^** Jarvis, Chris (6 January 2023). "Everyone in the running to be the Green Party's candidate for London Mayor in 2024". _Bright Green_. Retrieved 11 May 2023.
  128. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Jarvis, Chris (10 February 2023). "Zoë Garbett selected as the Green Party's 2024 London Mayoral candidate". _Bright Green_. Retrieved 10 February 2023.
  129. **^** "Scott Ainslie on his bid to be the Green Party's candidate for Mayor of London in 2024". _Bright Green_. 7 January 2023. Retrieved 7 January 2023.
  130. **^** "Lib Dems unveil shortlist of potential London mayor candidates | LondonWorld". Retrieved 6 August 2023.
  131. **^** "Who is Rob Blackie? Campaigner fighting Russian propaganda in bid to become London mayor". Sky News. Retrieved 21 July 2023.
  132. **^** "Who is Chris French? The Lib Dem who wants to 'build a bridge' between communities as London mayor". Sky News. Retrieved 21 July 2023.
  133. **^** Vickers, Noah (5 March 2024). "Lib Dem London mayoral candidate says he has beaten cancer". _Evening Standard_.
  134. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ London mayor election 2024: 13 candidates make the cut, BBC, 28 March 2024
  135. **^** Salisbury, Josh (14 March 2024). "Count Binface standing to be Mayor of London and wants croissant price cap". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 17 March 2024.
  136. **^** Vickers, Noah (12 October 2023). "Former Tory London mayoral hopeful launches independent bid for City Hall". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 21 October 2023.
  137. **^** "Entrepreneur running for London mayor promises 'centrist' platform". _Enfield Dispatch_. 12 October 2023. Retrieved 3 February 2024.
  138. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Vickers, Noah (10 January 2024). "Nurse and property broker announce London mayoral election bids". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 10 January 2024.
  139. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lydall, Ross; Vickers, Noah; Cecil, Nicholas (17 January 2024). "Starter's orders as Sadiq Khan and Susan Hall set out London mayoral pitch". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 19 January 2024.
  140. **^** "Businessman Tarun Ghulati wants to become London's first Indian-origin Mayor". _India Today_. 9 November 2023.
  141. **^** "Meet Tarun Ghulati, investment banker who wants to become London's first Indian-origin mayor". _The Week_.
  142. **^** Forest, Waltham (6 January 2024). "Investment banker wants to rip out Ulez and LTNs if he becomes London mayor". _Waltham Forest Echo_. Retrieved 10 January 2024.
  143. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Gym owner Andreas Michli stands as London mayoral candidate". BBC News. 19 November 2023. Retrieved 25 November 2023.
  144. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Vickers, Noah (5 January 2024). "London mayoral candidate wants to scrap Ulez and give out free nutrition plans". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 10 January 2024.
  145. **^** Salisbury, Josh (12 March 2024). "London mayoral candidate loses challenge against Covid lockdown conviction". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 17 March 2024.
  146. **^** "London Mayoral election: Former banker Brian Rose to stand". BBC News. 20 March 2024. Retrieved 21 March 2024.
  147. **^** "Property and finance broker stands for London mayor". BBC News. 10 January 2024. Retrieved 10 January 2024.
  148. **^** "London mayoral candidate is barred from being a company director and believes aliens 'have been here for a long time'". _Lbc.co.uk_. Retrieved 3 February 2024.
  149. **^** Frank-Keyes, Jessica (26 February 2024). "Piers Corbyn is going to run for London mayor: here's why that could be a problem for Sadiq Khan". _Cityam.com_. Retrieved 27 February 2024.
  150. **^** Munro, Craig (28 March 2024). "Laurence Fox can't run for London Mayor because he didn't fill form properly". _Metro.co.uk_.
  151. **^** Grierson, Jamie (28 March 2024). "Laurence Fox's London mayor hopes end after errors filling in forms". _The Guardian_. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 4 May 2024.
  152. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Vickers, Noah (22 December 2023). "'Wildcard' independent London mayoral candidate pledges car-free Sundays". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 23 December 2023.
  153. **^** Hainey, Fionnula (1 May 2024). "London mayoral election 2024 candidates list in full". _Manchester Evening News_. Retrieved 18 July 2024.
  154. **^** Vickers, Noah (2 February 2024). "Mayoral candidate pledges lower London rents and digital democracy". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 4 February 2024.
  155. **^** Vickers, Noah (20 March 2024). "Ex-banker Brian Rose declares he will stand again for London mayor". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 21 March 2024.
  156. **^** "Social justice advisor Rayhan Haque stands for London mayor". BBC News. 2 January 2024. Retrieved 10 January 2024.
  157. **^** Vickers, Noah (11 March 2024). "Independent London mayoral candidate becomes first to drop out of race". _Evening Standard_. Retrieved 17 March 2024.
  158. **^** "Jeremy Corbyn to 'have a think' about London mayor bid". BBC News. 5 August 2023. Retrieved 5 August 2023.
  159. **^** Dyer, Henry (5 July 2024). "Jeremy Corbyn re-elected in Islington North after expulsion from Labour". _The Guardian_. Retrieved 9 August 2024.
  160. **^** Strategies, Redfield & Wilton (8 September 2023). "London Mayoral Election Voting Intention (4–6 September 2023)". _Redfield & Wilton Strategies_. Retrieved 6 November 2023.
  161. **^** O'Grady, Sean (16 June 2023). "Could Boris Johnson really come back as London mayor?". _The Independent_. Retrieved 17 June 2023.
  162. **^** _The Rest is Politics_ , 3 August 2023
  163. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "London mayor election: Sadiq Khan clinches historic third term". BBC News. 4 May 2024. Retrieved 6 May 2024.
  164. **^** Warren, Jess (3 May 2024). "Voter turnout was 40.5% for London mayoral election". BBC News. Retrieved 6 May 2024.
  165. **^** "London elections 2021: Record number of mayoral votes rejected". BBC News. 10 May 2021. Retrieved 6 May 2024.
  166. **^** "London Mayoral Election 2024: Results in full" at _The Independent_ (retrieved 5 May 2024)

  * v
  * t
  * e

Elections and referendums in London  
---  
Mayor of London|

  * 2000
  * 2004
  * 2008
  * 2012
  * 2016
  * 2021
  * 2024

  
London Assembly|

  * 2000
  * 2004
  * 2008
  * 2012
  * 2016
  * 2021
  * 2024

  
Inner London Education Authority|

  * 1986

  
Greater London Council|

  * 1964
  * 1967
  * 1970
  * 1973
  * 1977
  * 1981

  
London County Council|

  * 1889
  * 1892
  * 1895
  * 1898
  * 1901
  * 1904
  * 1907
  * 1910
  * 1913
  * 1919
  * 1922
  * 1925
  * 1928
  * 1931
  * 1934
  * 1937
  * 1946
  * 1949
  * 1952
  * 1955
  * 1958
  * 1961

  
Borough councils|

  * 1964
  * 1968
  * 1971
  * 1974
  * 1978
  * 1982
  * 1986
  * 1990
  * 1994
  * 1998
  * 2002
  * 2006
  * 2010
  * 2014
  * 2018
  * 2022

  
Referendums|

  * 1998

  
  
See also

    Elections in London Boroughs
    Middlesex County Council elections  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

(2023 <-)  ![United
Kingdom](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/a/ae/Flag_of_the_United_Kingdom.svg/23px-
Flag_of_the_United_Kingdom.svg.png) 2024 United Kingdom local elections (->
2025)  
---  
Combined Authority Mayors|

  * East Midlands
  * Liverpool City Region
  * Greater Manchester
  * London
  * North East
  * South Yorkshire
  * Tees Valley
  * West Midlands
  * West Yorkshire
  * York and North Yorkshire

  
Single Authority Mayors|

  * Salford

  
Metropolitan boroughs|

  * Barnsley
  * Bolton
  * Bradford
  * Bury
  * Calderdale
  * Coventry
  * Dudley
  * Gateshead
  * Kirklees
  * Knowsley
  * Leeds
  * Manchester
  * Newcastle upon Tyne
  * North Tyneside
  * Oldham
  * Rochdale
  * Rotherham
  * Salford
  * Sandwell
  * Sefton
  * Sheffield
  * Solihull
  * South Tyneside
  * Stockport
  * Sunderland
  * Tameside
  * Trafford
  * Wakefield
  * Walsall
  * Wigan
  * Wolverhampton

  
Unitary authorities|

  * Blackburn with Darwen
  * Bristol
  * Dorset
  * Halton
  * Hartlepool
  * Kingston upon Hull
  * Milton Keynes
  * North East Lincolnshire
  * Peterborough
  * Plymouth
  * Portsmouth
  * Reading
  * Southampton
  * Southend-on-Sea
  * Swindon
  * Thurrock
  * Warrington
  * Wokingham

  
District councils|

  * Adur
  * Basildon
  * Basingstoke and Deane
  * Brentwood
  * Broxbourne
  * Burnley
  * Cambridge
  * Cannock Chase
  * Castle Point
  * Cheltenham
  * Cherwell
  * Chorley
  * Colchester
  * Crawley
  * Eastleigh
  * Elmbridge
  * Epping Forest
  * Exeter
  * Fareham
  * Gloucester
  * Gosport
  * Harlow
  * Hart
  * Hastings
  * Havant
  * Hyndburn
  * Ipswich
  * Lincoln
  * Maidstone
  * Mole Valley
  * North Hertfordshire
  * Norwich
  * Nuneaton and Bedworth
  * Oxford
  * Pendle
  * Preston
  * Redditch
  * Reigate and Banstead
  * Rochford
  * Rossendale
  * Rugby
  * Runnymede
  * Rushmoor
  * St Albans
  * Stevenage
  * Stroud
  * Tamworth
  * Tandridge
  * Three Rivers
  * Tunbridge Wells
  * Watford
  * Welwyn Hatfield
  * West Lancashire
  * West Oxfordshire
  * Winchester
  * Woking
  * Worcester
  * Worthing

  
Other elections|

  * London Assembly
  * Police and crime commissioners
  * Blackpool South by-election

  
  
![](https://login.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1)

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=2024_London_mayoral_election&oldid=1252235757"

Categories:

  * 2024 elections in the United Kingdom
  * 2024 in London
  * 2024 English local elections
  * May 2024 events in the United Kingdom
  * Mayoral elections in London
  * Sadiq Khan

Hidden categories:

  * Articles with short description
  * Short description is different from Wikidata
  * Wikipedia pending changes protected pages
  * Use British English from January 2022
  * Use dmy dates from January 2022

  * This page was last edited on 20 October 2024, at 13:00 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Code of Conduct
  * Developers
  * Statistics
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  * ![Wikimedia Foundation](/static/images/footer/wikimedia-button.svg)
  * ![Powered by MediaWiki](/w/resources/assets/poweredby_mediawiki.svg)

  *[Oth.]: Others
  *[v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[e]: Edit this template

