Jump to content

Main menu

Main menu

move to sidebar hide

Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * About Wikipedia
  * Contact us

Contribute

  * Help
  * Learn to edit
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Upload file

![](/static/images/icons/wikipedia.png)
![Wikipedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-wordmark-en.svg) ![The
Free Encyclopedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-tagline-en.svg)

Search

Search

Appearance

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Personal tools

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Pages for logged out editors learn more

  * Contributions
  * Talk

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * (Top)

  * 1 Background

  * 2 Candidacy requirements

  * 3 Candidates

Toggle Candidates subsection

    * 3.1 Expected or not having submitted their candidacy

    * 3.2 Submitted candidacy

    * 3.3 Disqualifications and arrests

    * 3.4 Successful candidacy

  * 4 Campaign

Toggle Campaign subsection

    * 4.1 Boycott

    * 4.2 Imprisonment of Ayachi Zammel

    * 4.3 Saied

  * 5 Conduct

  * 6 Observers

  * 7 Preliminary results

Toggle Preliminary results subsection

    * 7.1 Voter demographics

    * 7.2 Tables

  * 8 References

  * 9 External links

Toggle the table of contents

# 2024 Tunisian presidential election

5 languages

  * العربية
  * Español
  * Français
  * Italiano
  * Türkçe

Edit links

  * Article
  * Talk

English

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

General

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Cite this page
  * Get shortened URL
  * Download QR code

Print/export

  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

In other projects

  * Wikidata item

Appearance

move to sidebar hide

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

2024 Tunisian presidential
election![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/ce/Flag_of_Tunisia.svg/50px-
Flag_of_Tunisia.svg.png)

* * *  
  
---  
| <- 2019 | **6 October 2024** | 2029 ->  
---|---|---  
Turnout| 28.80%
(![Decrease](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/e/ed/Decrease2.svg/11px-
Decrease2.svg.png) 20.18pp)  
|  | ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/14/Kais_Saied_2023.jpg/108px-Kais_Saied_2023.jpg) | ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/b/bd/3x4.svg/112px-3x4.svg.png)  
---|---|---  
Candidate  | **Kais Saied** | Ayachi Zammel  
Party  | Independent | Azimoun  
Popular vote  | **2,438,954** | 197,551   
Percentage  | **90.69%** | 7.35%   
  
* * *

| **President before election**  
Kais Saied  
Independent | **Elected President**   
Kais Saied  
Independent  
---|---  
  
Presidential elections were held in Tunisia on 6 October 2024.[1] They were
the first presidential elections since the promulgation of the 2022
constitution and were boycotted by most parties. After rejecting several
candidacies, including those of the main opponents of incumbent president Kais
Saied, the Independent High Authority for Elections (ISIE) confirmed the
candidacies of only three candidates; Saied and former deputies Zouhair
Maghzaoui and Ayachi Zammel, rejecting those of Mondher Zenaidi, Abdellatif
Mekki and Imed Daimi, who had been reinstated by the Administrative Court.
This decision was contrary to the constitution, which stipulates that the
decisions of the Administrative Court cannot be appealed.[_citation needed_]

On 14 September the Administrative Court ordered the ISIE to accept the
candidacies, which the latter refused, before the Assembly of the
Representatives of the People, fearing that the latter would invalidate the
elections, transferred, by a controversial amendment to the electoral law, the
powers of the Administrative Court to the Court of Appeal of Tunis. A few
weeks before the election, Ayachi Zammel, who had obtained the support of part
of the opposition, was imprisoned and then sentenced to a total of thirteen
years and eight months in prison in three trials for accusations of false
sponsorship. The sentences against him were interpreted by several observers
and non-governmental organizations as judicial harassment aimed at eliminating
his candidacy. Similarly, the sidelining or imprisonment of other candidates
were also denounced. Saied won with 91% of the vote, with a voter turnout of
just under 29%, the lowest since the Tunisian revolution. He was inaugurated
for a second term as president on 21 October.[2]

## Background

[edit]

See also: 2021 Tunisian self-coup, 2022 Tunisian constitutional referendum,
and 2022–23 Tunisian parliamentary election

On 25 July 2021, Republic Day, after months of political crisis between
President of the Republic, Kais Saied and the Assembly of the Representatives
of the People, thousands of protesters demanded the latter's dissolution and a
change of regime.[3] The government was criticized for the catastrophic state
of the economy and its inaction, which led in particular to the worsening of
the health crisis linked to the COVID-19 pandemic.[4] That same evening,
invoking Article 80 of the 2014 Constitution, Kais Saied dismissed the
Mechichi Cabinet with immediate effect, in particular Hichem Mechichi from his
duties as head of government and interim Minister of the Interior, announced
the suspension of the assembly (whose members he lifted their immunity), the
formation of a new government (which would be accountable to him) and his
decision to govern by decree; he also indicated that he would chair the
prosecution.[5] Ennahda immediately denounced a "coup d'état".[6] This
description of a coup d'état is shared by political analysts and lawyers.[7]

![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/78/%D9%85%D8%B8%D8%A7%D9%87%D8%B1%D8%A7%D8%AA_%D9%85%D8%B3%D8%A7%D9%86%D8%AF%D8%A9_%D9%84%D9%82%D9%8A%D8%B3_%D8%B3%D8%B9%D9%8A%D8%AF_4.jpg/241px-%D9%85%D8%B8%D8%A7%D9%87%D8%B1%D8%A7%D8%AA_%D9%85%D8%B3%D8%A7%D9%86%D8%AF%D8%A9_%D9%84%D9%82%D9%8A%D8%B3_%D8%B3%D8%B9%D9%8A%D8%AF_4.jpg)Pro-
Saied protest in Avenue Habib Bourguiba, Tunis, 3 October 2021.

On 22 September he confirmed by decree the extension of the decisions as well
as the dissolution of the Provisional Authority responsible for monitoring the
constitutionality of draft laws, and decided to suspend the salaries and
benefits granted to the President of the Assembly of the Representatives of
the People and its members,[8] and granted himself the right to govern by
decree, de facto recovering legislative power.[9] His decision was criticized
by most of the parties represented in Parliament.[10] On 29, September the
President tasked Najla Bouden with forming a new government. She thus became a
pioneer in the country as well as in the Arab world.[11] From 15 January to 20
March 2022, an electronic consultation took place on the reforms to be
proposed in anticipation of the referendum.[12] In the vote, which had a very
low turnout, the options of a transition to a presidential system and a
single-member constituency for the legislative elections prevailed.[13] On 30
March 120 deputies, chaired by the second vice-president of the assembly Tarek
Fetiti,[14] met in a virtual session to vote on the end of the exceptional
measures in force since 25 July. On the same day, Kais Saied dissolved
Parliament, which the Constitution prohibits during the period when the state
of emergency is applied, and threatened the deputies with legal action.[15]

On 6 April, Kais Saied announced that the elections would be held by a two-
round majority single-member constituency.[16] On 5 September, he indicated
that the electoral law would be drawn up taking into account the
recommendations of the supporters of the 25 July process, and that the rest of
the political class would be excluded from this process.[17] On 25 July 2022,
the new Constitution was adopted by constitutional referendum with 94.60% of
the vote.[18] The new electoral law was published by decree on 15
September.[19] The suspension of parliament was extended pending the
investiture of the new legislature.[20] In October 2024, a few days before the
presidential election, several demonstrations took place in Tunis, with
protesters calling for a boycott of the election.[21]

## Candidacy requirements

[edit]

The Independent High Authority for Elections has announced the following
candidacy requirements:[22]

  * Be a voter registered on the electoral register.
  * Be Tunisian without any other nationality born to a Tunisian father and mother with paternal and maternal grandparents who are all Tunisians.
  * Be of the Muslim religion.
  * Be at least 40 years old at the time of submitting the candidacy.
  * Enjoy all their civil and political rights.
  * Not have held the office of President of the Republic for two consecutive or separate terms.
  * Not be subject to one of the following prohibitions: loss of the quality of elector and loss of the right to candidacy resulting from a conviction for the crimes mentioned in Articles 161 and 163 of the electoral law and Article 30 of the Penal Code.
  * Have the required sponsorships from the following: 
    * Ten members of the Assembly of People's Representatives or the National Council of Regions and Districts.
    * Forty presidents of local authorities, whether local, regional, or municipal councils; or
    * Ten thousand voters registered on the electoral lists spread across at least ten constituencies, each constituency having to have at least 500 voters.

## Candidates

[edit]

Politics of Tunisia  
---  
![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/80/Coat_of_arms_of_Tunisia.svg/125px-
Coat_of_arms_of_Tunisia.svg.png)  
![African
Union](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/51/Flag_of_the_African_Union.svg/23px-
Flag_of_the_African_Union.svg.png) Member State of the African Union ![Arab
League](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/2b/Flag_of_the_Arab_League.svg/23px-
Flag_of_the_Arab_League.svg.png) Member State of the Arab League  
Constitution

  * Current constitution 

    Constitution of 2022
  * Past constitution 

    Constitution of 1959
    Constitution of 2014

  
Executive

  * President (List) 

    Kais Saied
  * Prime Minister (List) 

    Kamel Madouri
    Cabinet

  
Legislature

  * National Council of Regions and Districts

    Speaker
  * Assembly of the Representatives of the People

    Speaker

  
Judiciary

  * Court of Cassation

  
Elections

  * Recent elections 

    
    * Presidential: 2019
    *  _2024_
    
    * Parliamentary: 2019
    * 2022–23
  * Political parties

  
Administrative divisions

  * Governorates
  * Delegations
  * Regional Councils

  
Foreign relations

  * Ministry of Foreign Affairs

    Minister: Nabil Ammar

* * *

  * Diplomatic missions of / in Tunisia

* * *

  * Passport
  * Visa requirements
  * Visa policy

  
![map](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/86/Africa_%28orthographic_projection%29.svg/16px-
Africa_%28orthographic_projection%29.svg.png) Africa portal  
![icon](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/0/01/A_coloured_voting_box.svg/16px-
A_coloured_voting_box.svg.png) Politics portal

  * Other countries

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
### Expected or not having submitted their candidacy

[edit]

  * Hatem Boulabiar, former candidate in 2019, announced his candidacy in November 2020.[23]
  * Adel Ltifi, an activist, announced in March 2022 that he would be a candidate.[24][25]
  * Nizar Chaari, former founder of the New Chartage movement, announced his candidacy in October 2022.
  * Lotfi Mraïhi, founder of the Republican People's Union and candidate in 2019,[26] announced his probable candidacy in January 2023 and confirmed it in April 2024.[27][28]
  * Fadhel Abdelkefi, former president of the Afek Tounes and former Minister of Finance, announced in February 2023 that he could be a candidate.[29]
  * Lazhar Akremi, journalist, lawyer and political activist, announced his candidacy during a judicial hearing in February 2023.
  * Olfa Hamdi, president of the Third Republic Party, announced her candidacy in November 2023.[30][31]
  * Issam Chebbi, secretary general of Republican Party imprisoned since 25 February 2023, was proposed by his party as a candidate in March 2024.[32]
  * Dhaker Lahidheb, cardiologist and former leader of the Democratic Current, announced his intention to run in April 2024.[33]
  * Actress Najoura Miled announced her intention to run in April 2024.[34]
  * Malek Saïhi, secretary general of the Young Tunisian Patriots movement and former candidate in the 2022–23 parliamentary election in the Nabeul constituency, announced his candidacy in July 2024.
  * Kamel Akrout, former first national security adviser under President Beji Caid Essebsi,[35][36] announced his candidacy in July 2024.[37][38]
  * Hichem Meddeb, former spokesperson for the Ministry of the Interior, announced his candidacy in July 2024.
  * Issam Guerfel, lawyer and former member of the Free Destourian Party, announced his candidacy in July 2024.
  * Azmi Belhaj Ahmed, PhD in chemistry, announced his candidacy in July 2024.
  * Karim Gharbi, known as K2Rhym, former rapper and son-in-law of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali,[39] ran as an independent candidate.[40] However, he claimed that the authorities did not provide him with an extract from his criminal record, and he did not submit his application.[41]

### Submitted candidacy

[edit]

| ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/14/Kais_Saied_2023.jpg/75px-Kais_Saied_2023.jpg) | This article is part of   
a series aboutKais Saied  
---|---  
  
  * Early life and education
  * Personal life

* * *

7th President of Tunisia

* * *

  * 2019 presidential election
  * 2021 self-coup
  * 2022 constitutional referendum
  * 2022 Constitution
  * 2022–23 parliamentary election
  * Decree Law 54
  * 2024 State visit to China
  * 2024 presidential election

* * *

**Family**

  * Ichraf Saied (spouse)

* * *

![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/0/06/Signature_Kais_Saied.svg/100px-
Signature_Kais_Saied.svg.png)
![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/80/Coat_of_arms_of_Tunisia.svg/40px-
Coat_of_arms_of_Tunisia.svg.png)

* * *  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
The submission of applications to the Independent High Authority for Elections
(ISIE) began on 29 July 2024 and ended on 6 August.[42] The preliminary list
of applications was announced on 11 August after the examination of the
applications and the final list announced on 3 September.[43]

  * Fathi Ben Khemaïes Krimi, a day laborer who also filed his candidacy in 2019, submitted his candidacy on 29 July.
  * Leila Hammami, an economics professor, advisor to international organizations, and civil society activist who announced her candidacy in July, filed her candidacy on 31 July.[44]
  * Yosri Slimane, a businessman, filed his candidacy on 2 August.
  * Abir Moussi, president of the Free Destourian Party,[45] announced in February 2022 that she would be her party's candidate.[46] In detention since October 2023, her candidacy was filed by her defense committee on 3 August without a criminal record or sponsorships, following the ISIE's refusal to provide the necessary copy.[47]
  * Kais Saied, the outgoing President,[48] having officially announced his candidacy for his own re-election on 20 July filed it on 5 August.[49][50]
  * Ayachi Zammel, leader of Azimoun, announced his intention to run in April 2024 and filed his candidacy on 5 August.[51][52]
  * Mondher Zenaidi, in exile in France,[53] several times a minister under the presidency of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and a candidate in 2014, officially announced his candidacy on 4 July and filed his candidacy on 5 August.[54][55]
  * Abdellatif Mekki, former Minister of Health and founder of the Work and Achievement movement, announced in August 2022 that he could run.[56]
  * Zouhair Maghzaoui, Secretary General of the People's Movement, filed his candidacy on 6 August.[57]
  * Safi Saïd, founder of the Gardens of Bees party and candidate in 2014 and 2019,[58] announced his candidacy in April 2024 and filed his application on 6 August.[59][60]
  * Imed Daïmi, vice-president of the Movement Party.[61]

### Disqualifications and arrests

[edit]

On 4 July 2024, the ISIE announced changes to the rules regulating candidates
to the presidential elections by issuing Ordinance 544 in which they raised
the age limit of presidential candidates to 40 years old compared to the age
limit of 35 years old currently enacted by the electoral law as well as adding
other constraining requirements exceeding the electoral law requirements.[62]
The ordinances were contested by multiple political parties such as the Third
Republic Party and Attayar Party. Both parties filed lawsuits against the
electoral committee for the annulment of Ordinance 544.[63][64] A total of 17
candidates applied to run in the presidential election.[65]

On 19 July 2024, a court barred Lotfi Mraïhi, the president of the Republican
People's Union, from standing in elections for life after convicting him of
vote-buying involving the 2019 presidential election. He was also sentenced to
eight months' imprisonment.[66] Several candidates and campaign workers were
also arrested and sentenced to prison during the candidate registration
process, including Abir Moussi, who received a two-year sentence for charges
of spreading false news shortly after registering her candidacy on 3 August,
as well as Nizar Chaari, who received an eight-month prison term on 5 August
and had three of his campaign workers arrested on charges of forging
signatures. Four staffers of Karim Gharbi's presidential campaign were also
arrested on charges of buying signatures of endorsement.[67]

Due to the minimum age rule, Olfa Hamdi was automatically banned from
participating.[68] K2Rhym was convicted to four years in prison in absentia
and banned from voting and running for the presidency for life.[69] Safi Said
was arrested on 22 August 2024 and placed in pre-trial detention.[70] On 2
September Ayachi Zammel was arrested on suspicion of falsifying endorsements
shortly before his candidacy was confirmed by the ISIE.[71] On 18 September,
he was sentenced to 20 months imprisonment for the charges. Despite this, he
has pledged to continue his presidential campaign.[72] He was sentenced to
another six months' imprisonment on related charges on 25 September[73] and an
additional 12 years' imprisonment in four related cases on 1 October.[74] On
27 September, the Assembly of the Representatives of the People voted to amend
the country's election law by preventing the judiciary from interfering with
decisions of the ISIE.[75]

### Successful candidacy

[edit]

The preliminary applications were announced on 10 August. These were those of
the incumbent president Kais Saied, Zouhair Maghzaoui and Ayachi Zammel.[76]
The other candidates saw their applications rejected, generally for a lack of
sponsorships.[77][78] Many of them and those who had given up running were
prosecuted for suspicion of false sponsorships. On 2 September, the electoral
authority confirmed the validation of the three applications, three other
applications, those of Mondher Zenaidi, Abdellatif Mekki and Imed Daïmi, who
had been reinstated by the Administrative Court, were however rejected.[79]
This decision is however contrary to the Constitution, which stipulates that
the decisions of the Administrative Court cannot be appealed and that the role
of the Independent High Authority for Elections is only technical. The
president of the ISIE claimed that the Administrative Court is not competent
and accused the latter of failing to notify them of the decision to reinstate
the candidates, which the Administrative Court denied.[80] The decision was
denounced by the Tunisian General Labour Union and Human Rights Watch.[81][82]

Daïmi was referred by the ISIE for perjury regarding the failure to renounce
his French nationality.[83] In response, Zenaidi announced that he was filing
an appeal with the Administrative Court. On 14 September, the latter ordered
the ISIE to accept these candidacies.[84] On 20 September, deputies submitted
a draft amendment to the electoral law, to remove the Administrative Court's
prerogatives to validate the election results, in anticipation that it,
independent unlike other jurisdictions, would invalidate the results of the
presidential election.[85] Entrusting the powers of the Administrative Court
to the Court of Appeal, the law was adopted on 27 September.[86]

Candidate (name and age) and political party  | Main political mandates exercised  | Other information   
---|---|---  
**Kais Saied**  
(66 years)[87]  
Independent  | ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/14/Kais_Saied_2023.jpg/100px-Kais_Saied_2023.jpg) |  | President of the Republic  
(since 2019)  | Incumbent President   
**Ayachi Zammel**  
(59 years)[88]  
Azimoun  | ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/78/Sin_foto.svg/103px-Sin_foto.svg.png) |  | Member of Parliament for Kébili constituency  
(2014–2021)  | President of Azimoun   
**Zouhair Maghzaoui**  
(47 years)[89]  
People's Movement | ![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/78/Sin_foto.svg/103px-Sin_foto.svg.png) |  | Member of Parliament for Siliana constituency  
(2019–2021)  | Secretary General of the People's Movement. An admirer of Lula da Silva, he has long been an unofficial advisor to the outgoing president.   
  
## Campaign

[edit]

### Boycott

[edit]

The opposition was divided between boycotting and voting for an opposition
candidate.[90] A candidate from the National Salvation Front can initially be
presented by the coalition if the conditions are met.[91] However, in April
2024, it announced a boycott of the election, which it described as an
"electoral farce".[92] The Workers' Party announced in July that it was
boycotting the elections and would not present a candidate.[93] On 2 October,
five left-wing parties announced a boycott of the elections, including the
Workers' Party, the Socialist Party, Democratic Forum for Labour and
Liberties, Social Democratic Path and Democratic Modernist Pole.[94] For their
part, the Democratic Current and the Free Destourian Party announced that they
would reject the results in advance.[95] On 3 October, Ennahda strongly
criticized the electoral process and its legitimacy, without giving any voting
instructions. Former President Moncef Marzouki also called for a boycott.[96]

### Imprisonment of Ayachi Zammel

[edit]

On 4 September, Ayachi Zammel was arrested and placed in pretrial detention
two days later on charges of false sponsorship.[97][98] After obtaining his
provisional release on 5 September,[99] he was immediately arrested and
sentenced to twenty months in prison on 18 September.[100][101] On 25
September, a new six-month prison sentence for "falsification of documents"
was handed down against Zammel.[102] On 1 October, he was sentenced to an
additional twelve years in prison, a decision, as well as the rejection and
imprisonment of other candidates, which were denounced by Human Rights
Watch.[103] This accumulation of summary sentences was interpreted as judicial
relentlessness reflecting the government's panic over his electoral potential,
with many opponents considering voting for him, despite his lack of notoriety,
the latter having initially spared him from a rejection of his
candidacy.[104][105]

### Saied

[edit]

With little involvement in the campaign, Kais Saied enjoyed the support of the
25 July movement, which is campaigning for him. According to political
scientist Khadija Mohsen Finan, the challenge for the outgoing president is a
decent turnout. Moreover, although his authoritarianism is tarnishing his
image, he cares little about it as he capitalizes on nationalist, sovereignist
and anti-Western rhetoric. In return, this discourse reaches a large part of
the population, who see him as a man of integrity.[106]

## Conduct

[edit]

Voting was held in 5,000 polling stations[107] from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m.[108] Around 9.7 million people were eligible to vote.[109] On 7 October,
the ISIE announced the results, Kais Saied was re-elected president of Tunisia
with 90.69% but on a turnout of 28.8%, the lowest since 2011, with Ayachi
Zammel winning 7.3% and Zouhair Maghzaoui winning 1.9%.[110]

## Observers

[edit]

The ISIE banned the groups I Watch and Mourakiboun from monitoring the
election, alleging that they had received funds from overseas in a suspicious
manner. In response, I Watch said it received foreign funding through legal
means, while Mourakiboun called the claims "baseless".[111]

## Preliminary results

[edit]

Candidate| Party| Votes| %  
---|---|---|---  
| Kais Saied| Independent| 2,438,954| 90.69  
| Ayachi Zammel| Azimoun| 197,551| 7.35  
| Zouhair Maghzaoui| People's Movement| 52,903| 1.97  
Total| 2,689,408| 100.00  
Valid votes| 2,689,408| 95.76  
Invalid votes| 84,953| 3.02  
Blank votes| 34,187| 1.22  
Total votes| 2,808,548| 100.00  
Registered voters/turnout| 9,753,217| 28.80  
Source: Independent High Authority for Elections[112] (preliminary)  
  
### Voter demographics

[edit]

SIGMA Conseil exit polling for state broadcaster Télévision Tunisienne
suggested the following demographic breakdown.

Voter demographics in percentage[113][114]  
---  
Social group  | Saied | Zammel | Maghzaoui | Lead   
|  |   
Exit poll result  | **89.2** | 6.9  | 3.9  | **82.3**  
Preliminary result  | **90.7** | 7.4  | 1.2  | **83.3**  
Gender  
Men  | **88.3** | 7.6  | 4.1  | **80.7**  
Women  | **90.4** | 5.9  | 3.6  | **84.5**  
Age  
Younger than 35  | **87.3** | 8.5  | 4.3  | **78.8**  
35–45  | **87.0** | 8.0  | 5.0  | **79.0**  
46–60  | **90.0** | 6.5  | 3.4  | **83.5**  
Older than 60  | **92.7** | 4.2  | 3.1  | **88.5**  
Level of education  
No education  | **90.1** | 4.0  | 6.0  | **86.1**  
Lower education  | **93.1** | 3.7  | 3.2  | **89.4**  
Secondary education  | **89.6** | 6.6  | 3.8  | **83.0**  
Higher education  | **86.1** | 10.0  | 3.9  | **76.1**  
  
### Tables

[edit]

Preliminary results by governorate Governorate | Saied | Zammel | Maghzaoui  
---|---|---|---  
|  |   
Votes  | %  | Votes  | %  | Votes  | %   
Ariana | **111,056** | **84.56%** | 17,091  | 13.01%  | 3,193  | 2.43%   
Béja | **71,572** | **94.92%** | 2,758  | 3.66%  | 1,076  | 1.43%   
Ben Arous | **137,576** | **88.02%** | 15,356  | 9.83%  | 3,362  | 2.15%   
Bizerte | **111,672** | **92.71%** | 7,223  | 5.79%  | 1,879  | 1.51%   
Gabès | **68,031** | **88.82%** | 6,497  | 8.48%  | 2,064  | 2.69%   
Gafsa | **69,804** | **92.63%** | 3,797  | 5.04%  | 1,753  | 2.33%   
Jendouba | **89,720** | **95.97%** | 2,639  | 2.82%  | 1,131  | 1.21%   
Kairouan | **117,399** | **94.92%** | 5,079  | 4.11%  | 1,202  | 0.97%   
Kasserine | **103,943** | **95.17%** | 3,846  | 3.52%  | 1,434  | 1.31%   
Kebili | **33,311** | **86.89%** | 2,526  | 6.59%  | 2,498  | 6.52%   
Kef | **58,126** | **95.49%** | 1,937  | 3.18%  | 806  | 1.32%   
Mahdia | **91,344** | **93.99%** | 4,418  | 4.55%  | 1,424  | 1.47%   
Manouba | **85,947** | **92.46%** | 5,593  | 6.02%  | 1,420  | 1.53%   
Medenine | **70,974** | **88.49%** | 6,962  | 8.68%  | 2,272  | 2.83%   
Monastir | **128,364** | **93.04%** | 7,667  | 5.56%  | 1,929  | 1.40%   
Nabeul | **198,517** | **93.35%** | 10,937  | 5.14%  | 3,198  | 1.50%   
Sfax | **215,856** | **87.89%** | 24,307  | 9.90%  | 5,447  | 2.22%   
Sidi Bouzid | **99,801** | **95.74%** | 2,777  | 2.66%  | 1,666  | 1.60%   
Siliana | **56,018** | **92.81%** | 3,719  | 6.16%  | 623  |  1.03%   
Sousse | **138,626** | **91.17%** | 10,803  | 7.10%  | 2,628  | 1.73%   
Tataouine | **18,075** | **87.21%** | 2,092  | 10.09%  | 559  | 2.70%   
Tozeur | **27,043** | **93.20%** | 1,414  | 4.87%  | 560  | 1.93%   
Tunis | **207,458** | **85.65%** | 28,865  | 11.92%  | 5,897  | 2.43%   
Zaghouan | **48,014** | **95.09%** | 1,863  | 3.69%  | 618  | 1.22%   
Diaspora | **76,707** | **77.99%** | 17,385  | 17,68%  | 4,264  | 4.34%   
Total  | **2,438,954** | **90.69%** | 197,551  | 7.35%  | 52,903  | 1.97%   
**Source:** Independent High Authority for Elections[112]  
Preliminary results per collection centre in the Tunisian diaspora Collection centre  | Saied | Zammel | Maghzaoui  
---|---|---|---  
|  |   
Votes  | %  | Votes  | %  | Votes  | %   
Africa | **486** | **68.64%** | 174  | 24.58%  | 48  | 6.78%   
Americas | **2,411** | **57.40%** | 1,536  | 36.57%  | 253  | 6.02%   
Arab countries | **8,415** | **78.81%** | 1,862  | 17.44%  | 401  | 3.76%   
Italy | **13,120** | **93.69%** | 686  | 4.90%  | 198  | 1.41%   
Germany | **4,188** | **70.30%** | 1,412  | 23.70%  | 357  | 5.99%   
Asia and Australia | **169** | **72.53%** | 43  | 18.45%  | 21  | 9.01%   
Rest of Europe | **7,048** | **71.29%** | 2,329  | 23.56%  | 510  | 5.16%   
France 1  | **17,987** | **67.16%** | 7,056  | 26.35%  | 1,738  | 6.49%   
France 2  | **10,734** | **85.62%** | 1,371  | 10.94%  | 432  | 3.45%   
France 3  | **12,149** | **90.86%** | 916  | 6.85%  | 306  | 2.29%   
Total  | **76,707** | **77.99%** | 17,385  | 17,68%  | 4,264  | 4.34%   
**Source:** Independent High Authority for Elections[112]  
  
## References

[edit]

  1. **^** "Tunisian president sets election date for Oct. 6". _Reuters_. 2 July 2024.
  2. **^** "Tunisia's president is inaugurated for a second term following a crackdown on his opponents". _Associated Press_. 22 October 2024. Retrieved 22 October 2024.
  3. **^** "En Tunisie, des milliers de manifestants défilent contre leurs dirigeants - Le Temps" (in French). 25 July 2021. ISSN 1423-3967. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  4. **^** "Kaïs Saïed, seul maître à bord en Tunisie - Le Temps" (in French). 23 September 2021. ISSN 1423-3967. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  5. **^** "Kais Saied prend tous les pouvoirs en main, suspend le parlement, limoge Mechichi et s'érige en chef de l'exécutif et du parquet". _Leaders_ (in French). Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  6. **^** "Tunisie : une consultation largement boudée plébiscite un régime présidentiel". _Le Figaro_ (in French). 1 April 2022. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  7. **^** "Tunisie : le président s'arroge le pouvoir exécutif, Ennahdha condamne un «coup d'Etat contre la révolution»". _Le Parisien_ (in French). 25 July 2021. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  8. **^** "Publication de dispositions exceptionnelles de la présidence". _Mosaique FM_ (in French). Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  9. **^** "Tunisie : Kaïs Saïed renforce les pouvoirs de la présidence". _Le Figaro_ (in French). 22 September 2021. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  10. **^** "Tunisie: mécontentement dans la classe politique après les annonces de Kaïs Saïed". _RFI_ (in French). 23 September 2021. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  11. **^** "Tunisie : Najla Bouden Romdhane chargée de former un nouveau gouvernement". _France 24_ (in French). 29 September 2021. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  12. **^** "Tunisie: échec de la consultation nationale en ligne voulue par le président Saïed". _RFI_ (in French). 22 March 2022. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  13. **^** "Tunisie : la consultation citoyenne du président Kaïs Saïed a du plomb dans l'aile". _France Culture_ (in French). 18 March 2022. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  14. **^** Chamsi, Chahrazed (31 March 2022). "Ftiti: Leur but était de pousser le chef de l'Etat à organiser un dialogue national ou à dissoudre le Parlement [Audio]". _Tunisie_ (in French). Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  15. **^** "Tunisie : poussé dans ses derniers retranchements, Kaïs Saïed dissout l'Assemblée". _JeuneAfrique.com_ (in French). Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  16. **^** "Tunisie: Saïed annonce des nouvelles règles de vote aux élections législatives". _Challenges_ (in French). 6 April 2022. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  17. **^** "Législatives: Un nouveau projet avec les _adhérents au 25 juillet_ ". _Mosaique FM_ (in French). Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  18. **^** "Référendum en Tunisie : la nouvelle Constitution adoptée malgré une forte abstention". _France 24_ (in French). 26 July 2022. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  19. **^** "En Tunisie, une nouvelle loi électorale réduit le rôle des partis politiques". _France 24_ (in French). 15 September 2022. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  20. **^** "Tunisie : Saied prolonge la suspension du Parlement, nouvelles élections en décembre 2022". _Le Figaro_ (in French). 13 December 2021. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  21. **^** "Tunisie : des centaines de manifestants appellent au boycott de l'élection de dimanche". _Africanews_ (in French). 5 October 2024. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  22. **^** "Tunisie - Présidentielle : Règles et procédures de candidature". _www.webdo.tn_ (in French). 15 July 2024. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  23. **^** "خاص 90 دقيقة: حاتم بولبيار يعلن ترشحه للإنتخابات الرئاسية 2024". _www.ifm.tn_ (in Arabic). 16 November 2020. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  24. **^** "Tunisie : Adel Ltifi candidat à la prochaine élection présidentielle". _Directinfo_ (in French). 1 March 2022. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  25. **^** NY, Yusra (1 March 2022). "Tunisie : Adel Ltifi lance son projet politique "Takaddom" et annonce sa candidature à la prochaine présidentielle". _Kapitalis_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  26. **^** "Lotfi Mraihi probable candidat à la présidentielle, si ..." _African Manager_ (in French). 31 January 2023. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  27. **^** NY, Yusra (2 April 2024). "Tunisie : Lotfi Mraihi annonce sa candidature officielle à la présidentielle (Vidéo)". _Kapitalis_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  28. **^** "Mraïhi undertakes to modify constitution if he is elected to presidency". _Tunisia News_. 24 April 2024.
  29. **^** Loum, Souleymane (16 February 2023). "Abdelkefi ouvre le bal de la présidentielle : il a des solutions et une équipe". _Tunisie_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  30. **^** "Prochaine élection présidentielle 2024 : Olfa Hamdi annonce sa candidature". _La Presse de Tunisie_ (in French). 12 November 2023. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  31. **^** _Former TunisAir CEO Olfa Hamdi is running for Presidency in Tunisia_. 16 February 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024 - via www.voaafrica.com.
  32. **^** NY, Yusra (7 March 2024). "Tunisie : Al-Joumhouri propose son candidat pour la présidentielle". _Kapitalis_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  33. **^** "Dhaker Lahidheb révèle son intention de se présenter à la Présidentielle". _Espace Manager_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  34. **^** Barbirou, Cyrine (12 April 2024). "L'actrice Najoua Miled, candidate à la présidentielle". _Leconomiste Maghrebin_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  35. **^** "Tunisie: Kamel Akrout, l'ex-amiral qui rêve de Carthage". _Arab News FR_ (in French). 19 May 2021. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  36. **^** "Tunisie – Kamel Akrout : « Le courant nationaliste est l'avenir du pays »". _Jeune Afrique_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  37. **^** "Kamel Akrout, l'amiral qui veut remettre le navire Tunisie à flot". _Jeune Afrique_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  38. **^** "Kamel Akrout annonce sa candidature à la présidentielle de 2024". _Webdo TN_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  39. **^** "Tunisie : le rappeur K2Rhym veut faire entendre sa voix à la présidentielle". _JeuneAfrique.com_.
  40. **^** "Tunisie : le rappeur K2Rhym veut faire entendre sa voix à la présidentielle". _JeuneAfrique.com_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  41. **^** "Un rappeur tunisien condamné à de la prison". _Voice of America_ (in French). 14 August 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  42. **^** "En Tunisie, la réintégration inattendue de l'opposant Mondher Zenaidi dans la course présidentielle" (in French). 30 August 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  43. **^** "Présidentielle tunisienne : le détail du calendrier est annoncé". _JeuneAfrique.com_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  44. **^** "Présidentielle en Tunisie : Leila Hammami présente sa candidature pour la 3e fois". _Kapitalis_ (in French). 31 July 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  45. **^** "PDL: Abir Moussi candidate for presidential elections". _Tunisia News_. 14 April 2024.
  46. **^** "Abir Moussi, la candidate du PDL pour les prochaines élections". _Tunisie Numerique_ (in French). 21 February 2022. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  47. **^** NY, Yusra (3 August 2024). "Tunisie-Présidentielle : Le dossier de candidature d'Abir Moussi déposé auprès de l'Isie". _Kapitalis_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  48. **^** "Tunisian President Saied says he will seek re-election in October". _Al Jazeera_. 20 July 2024. Retrieved 20 July 2024.
  49. **^** "Tunisie : Le président Kaïs Saïed officialise sa candidature à sa propre succession". _www.aa.com.tr_. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  50. **^** "Tunisie: Kais Saïed dépose sa candidature aux élections présidentielles [Vidéo]". _Tunisie Numerique_ (in French). 5 August 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  51. **^** "Tunisie – Ayachi Zammel annonce sa candidature à la présidentielle et donne un aperçu de son programme". _Tunisie_ (in French). 14 April 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  52. **^** NY, Yusra (5 August 2024). "Présidentielle-Tunisie : Ayachi Zammel dépose son dossier de candidature". _Kapitalis_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  53. **^** "En Tunisie, la réintégration inattendue de l'opposant Mondher Zenaidi dans la course présidentielle" (in French). 30 August 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  54. **^** "Tunisie : Mondher Zenaidi annonce sa candidature à l'élection présidentielle". _Webdo TN_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  55. **^** "Tunisia : Mondher Zenaidi ties up loose ends ahead of presidential bid - 01/03/2024". _Africa Intelligence_. 20 July 2024.
  56. **^** Issam, Issam (8 August 2022). "Abdellatif Mekki : Je serai peut-être candidat aux prochaines élections présidentielles". _Tunisie_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  57. **^** "Présidentielle : Zouhair Maghzaoui dépose sa candidature". _Mosaique FM_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  58. **^** "Tunisia-Safi Saïd: "I have decided to run for 2024 presidential election" (Video)". _Tunisia News_. 17 April 2024.
  59. **^** "Tunisie-Présidentielle : L'horizon est-il dégagé devant Safi Saïd ?". _Kapitalis_ (in French). 18 April 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  60. **^** "Présidentielle en Tunisie : Safi Saïd dépose sa candidature". _Tunisie Numerique_ (in French). 6 August 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  61. **^** NY, Yusra (18 July 2024). "Officiel : Imed Daïmi candidat à la présidentielle du 6 octobre". _Kapitalis_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  62. **^** Marzouk, Hamza (15 July 2024). "ISIE : annonce de la décision sur les procédures électorales".
  63. **^** "Third Republic Party files appeal against new electoral law". _Tunisia News_. 31 July 2024.
  64. **^** "Règles de candidature à la présidentielle : Attayar dépose un recours contre la décision de l'Isie".
  65. **^** "Tunisia's electoral authority approves just 2 candidates to challenge Saied. 1 has been detained". _Associated Press_. 3 September 2024. Retrieved 3 September 2024.
  66. **^** "Tunisian presidential candidate Lotfi Mraihi barred from contesting elections for life". _Associated Press_. 19 July 2024.
  67. **^** "Key Saied critic gets jail sentence as Tunisia presidential hopefuls report blocks to entering race". _France 24_. 6 August 2024.
  68. **^** "Election présidentielle : Le parti d'Olfa Hamdi dépose un recours contre l'ISIE". 30 July 2024.
  69. **^** Kotan, Bilge (15 August 2024). "Tunisia: Rapper K2Rhym jailed in absentia and banned from standing for presidency for life". _Middle East Eye_. Retrieved 2 September 2024.
  70. **^** "Tunisian politician Safi Said arrested after illegally crossing into Algeria". _The Arab Weekly_. 22 August 2024. Retrieved 2 September 2024.
  71. **^** "Tunisian police detain presidential hopeful as candidacy confirmed". _Al Jazeera_. 2 September 2024.
  72. **^** "A Tunisian presidential candidate sentenced to 20 months vows to campaign from prison". _Associated Press_. 19 September 2024. Retrieved 19 September 2024.
  73. **^** "Tunisian presidential candidate Zammel sentenced to six months in prison". _Al Jazeera_. 26 September 2024. Retrieved 27 September 2024.
  74. **^** "Tunisia reportedly jails presidential candidate Ayachi Zammel for 12 years". _Al Jazeera_. 1 October 2024. Retrieved 1 October 2024.
  75. **^** "Tunisia passes law to strip courts of power over election authority appointed by president". _Associated Press_. 27 September 2024. Retrieved 28 September 2024.
  76. **^** "En Tunisie, seuls trois candidats, incluant le président sortant Kaïs Saïed, ont été retenus pour se présenter à la présidentielle". _Franceinfo_ (in French). 11 August 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  77. **^** "Tunisia's electoral commission approves two candidates and incumbent Saied for presidential vote". _France 24_. 11 August 2024.
  78. **^** "Tunisia court allows former minister Znaidi to run for president". _Al Jazeera_. 29 August 2024.
  79. **^** "Tunisie: trois candidats à la présidentielle retenus, dont Kaïs Saïed, trois autres exclus définitivement". _RFI_ (in French). 2 September 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  80. **^** "En Tunisie, l'instance électorale éteint tout espoir d'une présidentielle démocratique". _JeuneAfrique_ (in French). Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  81. **^** "En Tunisie, le candidat à la présidentielle Ayachi Zammel a été placé en détention provisoire" (in French). 4 September 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  82. **^** "Tunisian court rules opposition leader can stand for presidency". _Africanews_. 28 August 2024.
  83. **^** "Présidentielle tunisienne : la commission électorale poursuit Imed Daïmi en justice". _Kapitalis_ (in French). 4 September 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  84. **^** "Tunisie-Un tribunal ordonne de réintégrer deux candidats évincés de la présidentielle". _Boursorama_ (in French). 14 September 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  85. **^** "Tunisie: consternation de la société civile suite à un projet d'amendement de la loi électorale". _RFI_ (in French). 21 September 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  86. **^** "Le Parlement tunisien révise la loi électorale à moins de dix jours de la présidentielle". _France 24_ (in French). 27 September 2024. Retrieved 7 October 2024.
  87. **^** "Tunisian President Saied says he will seek re-election in October". _Al Jazeera_. 20 July 2024. Retrieved 20 July 2024.
  88. **^** "Tunisia: Who is Zouhair Maghzaoui, presidential candidate?". _Tunisia News_. 10 August 2024.
  89. **^** "Who is Ayachi Zammel, presidential candidate?". _Tunisia News_. 10 August 2024.
  90. **^** "Présidentielle tunisienne: pour Kaïs Saïed, une victoire annoncée mais une image écornée?". _RFI_ (in French). 4 October 2024. Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  91. **^** "Tunisie : Le Front participera-t-il à la prochaine Présidentielle ?". _Webdo TN_ (in French). Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  92. **^** "Tunisie: le mouvement d'opposition du Front du salut national annonce boycotter la présidentielle". _RFI_ (in French). 30 April 2024. Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  93. **^** kapitalis, webmaster (9 July 2024). "Hamma Hammami : «Nous boycotterons les prochaines présidentielles»". _Kapitalis_ (in French). Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  94. **^** "تونس.. 5 أحزاب يسارية تدعو إلى "مقاطعة" الانتخابات الرئاسية" [Tunisia.. 5 leftist parties call for "boycott" of presidential elections]. _www.aa.com.tr_. Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  95. **^** Dejoui, Nadia (3 October 2024). "Le Courant démocrate rejette d'avance les résultats du 6 octobre". _Leconomiste Maghrebin_ (in French). Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  96. **^** NY, Yusra (3 October 2024). "Présidentielle en Tunisie : Le PDL dévoile sa position". _Kapitalis_ (in French). Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  97. **^** kapitalis, webmaster (4 September 2024). "Présidentielle tunisienne : mandat de dépôt contre le candidat Ayachi Zammel". _Kapitalis_ (in French). Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  98. **^** "Tunisie: Le candidat à la présidentielle Ayachi Zammel placé en détention provisoire". _Challenges_ (in French). 4 September 2024. Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  99. **^** Zonebourse (6 September 2024). "Un juge tunisien libère le candidat à la présidence Ayachi Zammel - Zonebourse". _ch.zonebourse.com_ (in Swiss French). Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  100. **^** "Tunisie: le candidat Ayachi Zammel à la présidentielle, relâché puis immédiatement arrêté". _Voice of America_ (in French). 6 September 2024. Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  101. **^** "Détenu mais candidat : Ayachi Zammel reste dans la course en Tunisie - Jeune Afrique.com". _JeuneAfrique.com_ (in French). Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  102. **^** "Tunisie : nouvelle peine de six mois de prison pour Ayachi Zammel, candidat à l'élection présidentielle" (in French). 26 September 2024. Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  103. **^** "Tunisie : le candidat Ayachi Zammel écope de 12 ans de prison à cinq jours de la présidentielle" (in French). 1 October 2024. Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  104. **^** "En Tunisie, le candidat à la présidence Ayachi Zammel condamné à douze ans de prison". _Courrier international_ (in French). 2 October 2024. Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  105. **^** Galtier, Mathieu. "En Tunisie, un grain de sable nommé Ayachi Zammel dans la campagne électorale de Kaïs Saïed". _Libération_ (in French). Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  106. **^** "Présidentielle tunisienne: pour Kaïs Saïed, une victoire annoncée mais une image écornée?". _RFI_ (in French). 4 October 2024. Retrieved 8 October 2024.
  107. **^** "Tunisia voting ends as Saied eyes re-election with critics behind bars". _France 24_. 6 October 2024.
  108. **^** "En Tunisie, 14,5 % de votants à la mi-journée et des bureaux ouverts jusqu'à 18 heures". _Jeune Afrique_. 6 October 2024.
  109. **^** "Tunisia votes in presidential election against a backdrop of repression". _France 24_. 6 October 2024.
  110. **^** "Tunisian President Kais Saied wins second term in landslide victory". _Le Monde_. 7 October 2024.
  111. **^** "Lack of election observers for Tunisia vote reflects crackdown". _France 24_. 4 October 2024.
  112. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "قرار الهيئة العليا المستقلة للإنتخابات مؤرّخ في 7 أكتوبر 2024 يتعلّق بالتصريح بالنتائج الأوّليّة للانتخابات الرئاسيّة لسنة 2024" [The decision of the Independent High Authority for Elections dated 7 October 2024 regarding the declaration of the preliminary results of the presidential elections of the year 2024] (PDF) (in Arabic). Independent High Authority for Elections. Retrieved 30 June 2024.
  113. **^** "Présidentielle 2024 – Selon Sigma, Kaïs Saïed réélu avec 89,2%" [Presidential 2024 - According to Sigma, Kaïs Saïed re-elected with 89.2%] (in French). Business News. 6 October 2024. Retrieved 6 October 2024.
  114. **^** _التقديرات الأولية لنتائج التصويت للانتخابات الرئاسية أربع و عشرين و ألفين_ [_Preliminary estimates of the voting results for the 2024 presidential election_] (YouTube video) (in Arabic). Télévision Tunisienne. 6 October 2024. Retrieved 6 October 2024.

## External links

[edit]

  * Official website

  * v
  * t
  * e

![Tunisia](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/ce/Flag_of_Tunisia.svg/23px-
Flag_of_Tunisia.svg.png) Elections and referendums in Tunisia  
---  
Presidential elections|

  * 1959
  * 1964
  * 1969
  * 1974
  * 1989
  * 1994
  * 1999
  * 2004
  * 2009
  * 2014
  * 2019
  * 2024

  
Parliamentary elections|

  * 1956
  * 1959
  * 1964
  * 1969
  * 1974
  * 1979
  * 1981
  * 1986
  * 1989
  * 1994
  * 1999
  * 2004
  * 2009
  * 2011
  * 2014
  * 2019
  * 2022–23

  
Regional elections|

  * _2022_

  
Local elections|

  * 1957
  * 1960
  * 1963
  * 1966
  * 1969
  * 1972
  * 1980
  * 1985
  * 1990
  * 1995
  * 2000
  * 2005
  * 2010
  * 2018

  
French elections|

  * 1945
  * 1946

  
Referendums|

  * 1945
  * 1946 (May)
  * 1946 (Oct)
  * 2002
  * 2022

  
  
![](https://login.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1)

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=2024_Tunisian_presidential_election&oldid=1253575928"

Categories:

  * 2024 elections in Africa
  * 2024 in Tunisia
  * October 2024 events in Africa
  * Presidential elections in Tunisia

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 French-language sources (fr)
  * CS1 Arabic-language sources (ar)
  * CS1 Swiss French-language sources (fr-ch)
  * Articles with short description
  * Short description is different from Wikidata
  * Use dmy dates from October 2024
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from October 2024
  * Official website not in Wikidata

  * This page was last edited on 26 October 2024, at 18:44 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Code of Conduct
  * Developers
  * Statistics
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  * ![Wikimedia Foundation](/static/images/footer/wikimedia-button.svg)
  * ![Powered by MediaWiki](/w/resources/assets/poweredby_mediawiki.svg)

  *[v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[e]: Edit this template

