Jump to content

Main menu

Main menu

move to sidebar hide

Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * About Wikipedia
  * Contact us

Contribute

  * Help
  * Learn to edit
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Upload file

![](/static/images/icons/wikipedia.png)
![Wikipedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-wordmark-en.svg) ![The
Free Encyclopedia](/static/images/mobile/copyright/wikipedia-tagline-en.svg)

Search

Search

Appearance

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Personal tools

  * Donate
  * Create account
  * Log in

Pages for logged out editors learn more

  * Contributions
  * Talk

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * (Top)

  * 1 Conduct

  * 2 Results

  * 3 References

Toggle the table of contents

# 2024 Dominican Republic municipal elections

2 languages

  * Español
  * Français

Edit links

  * Article
  * Talk

English

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

General

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Cite this page
  * Get shortened URL
  * Download QR code

Print/export

  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

In other projects

  * Wikidata item

Appearance

move to sidebar hide

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/8a/Translation_to_english_arrow.svg/50px-
Translation_to_english_arrow.svg.png)| You can help **expand this article with
text translated fromthe corresponding article in Spanish**.  _(February 2024)_
Click [show] for important translation instructions.

  *   * Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia.
  * Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article.
  * You **must** provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is `Content in this edit is translated from the existing Spanish Wikipedia article at [[:es:Elecciones municipales de la República Dominicana de 2024]]; see its history for attribution.`
  * You may also add the template `{{Translated|es|Elecciones municipales de la República Dominicana de 2024}}` to the talk page.
  * For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation.

  
---|---  
  
The **2024 Dominican Republic municipal elections** were held on 18 February
2024. Mayors and local councillors across the country were
elected.[1][2][3][4]

## Conduct

[edit]

Voting took place between the hours of 07:00-17:00 at polling stations across
the country.[5] Election day is officially recognized as a non-working day, as
per the provisions outlined in Article 229 of the Law on the Electoral
Regime.[6][7][8]

The Electoral Observation Mission of the Organization of American States began
activities in the country on 13 February 2024.[9] The Mission observed the
electoral organization, electoral technology, electoral justice, political-
electoral financing, and political participation of women in the municipal
elections. The Mission will present a report with insights and recommendations
for future elections in the Dominican Republic. The OAS Mission in the country
is headed by former Foreign Minister of Paraguay, Eladio Loizaga.

## Results

[edit]

According to the first bulletins from the Central Electoral Board, the Modern
Revolutionary Party would have achieved victory in 122 municipalities in the
country, obtaining close to 70% of the national total.[10] The Modern
Revolutionary Party secured key victories in densely populated regions
including the National District, Santo Domingo Este, Santo Domingo Norte, Los
Alcarrizo, Santiago, La Vega, San Francisco de Macorís and San Cristóbal.[11]

The People's Force denounced an abusive use of state resources in favor of the
ruling party and the initiation of legal actions before the Central Electoral
Board.[12]

## References

[edit]

  1. **^** "JCE inicia impresión del padrón electoral de cara a las elecciones municipales 2024" (in European Spanish). JCE. 16 January 2024. Retrieved 16 January 2024.
  2. **^** "Pleno JCE presenta calendario electoral procesos electorales de 2024".
  3. **^** "JCE publishes list of candidates for municipal elections". _DR1.com_. Retrieved 12 February 2024.
  4. **^** "Resultados de las elecciones municipales 2024 en República Dominicana" (in European Spanish). El Caribe. 19 February 2024. Retrieved 19 February 2024.
  5. **^** "Dominican Republic: Municipal elections scheduled nationwide Feb. 18". _Dominican Republic: Municipal elections scheduled nationwide Feb. 18 | Crisis24_. Retrieved 14 February 2024.
  6. **^** Group, 2006-2020, Merit Designs Consulting. "Election Day on 18 February is non-working". _DominicanToday_. Retrieved 16 February 2024.`{{cite web}}`: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)
  7. **^** "Elecciones municipales 2024: Dónde voto y Dónde encontrar el Colegio Electoral en la cédula" (in European Spanish). Acento. 25 January 2024. Retrieved 25 January 2024.
  8. **^** "Elecciones municipales 2024: Qué es y cómo funciona el voto preferencial" (in European Spanish). Acento. 28 January 2024. Retrieved 28 January 2024.
  9. **^** OAS (1 August 2009). "OAS - Organization of American States: Democracy for peace, security, and development". _OAS - Organization of American States_. Retrieved 16 February 2024.
  10. **^** "El gobernante PRM arrasa en las municipales y se consolida como primer partido dominicano". _Infobae_ (in European Spanish). 19 February 2024. Retrieved 21 March 2024.
  11. **^** Group, 2006-2020, Merit Designs Consulting. "PRM secures overwhelming victory in 2024 municipal elections". _DominicanToday_. Retrieved 21 March 2024.`{{cite web}}`: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)
  12. **^** Corripio, Grupo de medios (18 February 2024). "Fuerza del Pueblo denunció uso abusivo de recursos del Estado en elecciones municipales". _Hoy Digital_ (in Spanish). Retrieved 21 March 2024.

  * v
  * t
  * e

![Dominican
Republic](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/9/9f/Flag_of_the_Dominican_Republic.svg/23px-
Flag_of_the_Dominican_Republic.svg.png) Elections in the Dominican Republic  
---  
Presidential elections|

  * 1866
  * 1874
  * 1876
  * 1878 (May)
  * 1878 (Dec)
  * 1880
  * 1882
  * 1884
  * 1886
  * 1888
  * 1892
  * 1896
  * 1899
  * 1903
  * 1904
  * 1908
  * 1912
  * 1914
  * 1924
  * 1930
  * 1934
  * 1938
  * 1942
  * 1947
  * 1952
  * 1957
  * 1962
  * 1966
  * 1970
  * 1974
  * 1978
  * 1982
  * 1986
  * 1990
  * 1994
  * 1996
  * 2000
  * 2004
  * 2008
  * 2012
  * 2016
  * 2020
  * 2024

  
Parliamentary elections|

  * 1914
  * 1924
  * 1927
  * 1929
  * 1930
  * 1934
  * 1938
  * 1941
  * 1942
  * 1946
  * 1947
  * 1952
  * 1955
  * 1957
  * 1962
  * 1966
  * 1970
  * 1974
  * 1978
  * 1982
  * 1986
  * 1990
  * 1994
  * 1998
  * 2002
  * 2006
  * 2010
  * 2016
  * 2020
  * 2024

  
Municipal elections|

  * 2010
  * 2016
  * 2020
  * 2024

  
Referendums|

  * 1870
  * 1873
  * 1895

  
  
  

![Stub
icon](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/46/Vote_icon.svg/30px-
Vote_icon.svg.png)| This election-related article is a stub. You can help
Wikipedia by expanding it.  
---|---  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

![](https://login.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1)

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=2024_Dominican_Republic_municipal_elections&oldid=1248243287"

Categories:

  * 2024 elections in the Caribbean
  * February 2024 events in the Dominican Republic
  * Elections in the Dominican Republic
  * Election stubs

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 European Spanish-language sources (es-es)
  * CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list
  * CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)
  * Articles with short description
  * Short description with empty Wikidata description
  * Use dmy dates from February 2024
  * Government and politics articles needing translation from Spanish Wikipedia
  * All stub articles

  * This page was last edited on 28 September 2024, at 12:44 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Code of Conduct
  * Developers
  * Statistics
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  * ![Wikimedia Foundation](/static/images/footer/wikimedia-button.svg)
  * ![Powered by MediaWiki](/w/resources/assets/poweredby_mediawiki.svg)

  *[v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[e]: Edit this template

